LiAl₂Pb₂H₄(O₂F₃)₂ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Li is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Pb and three F atoms. The Li-Pb bond length is 2.87 Å. There are a spread of Li-F bond distances ranging from 1.83-1.97 Å. There are two inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded to three O and three F atoms to form edge-sharing AlO₃F₃ octahedra. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-1.95 Å. There are a spread of Al-F bond distances ranging from 1.83-1.86 Å. In the second Al site, Al is bonded to three O and three F atoms to form edge-sharing AlO₃F₃ octahedra. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.87-1.96 Å. There are a spread of Al-F bond distances ranging from 1.84-1.93 Å. There are two inequivalent Pb sites. In the first Pb site, Pb is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three O and two F atoms. There are a spread of Pb-O bond distances ranging from 2.52-2.80 Å. There is one shorter (2.47 Å) and one longer (2.71 Å) Pb-F bond length. In the second Pb site, Pb is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to one Li, two O, and three F atoms. There is one shorter (2.45 Å) and one longer (2.62 Å) Pb-O bond length. There is one shorter (2.54 Å) and two longer (2.67 Å) Pb-F bond lengths. There are four inequivalent H sites. In the first H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. In the second H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. In the third H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. In the fourth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. There are four inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two Al and one H atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two Al, one Pb, and one H atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one Al, two Pb, and one H atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one Al, two Pb, and one H atom. There are six inequivalent F sites. In the first F site, F is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Al and one Pb atom. In the second F site, F is bonded in a water-like geometry to one Li and one Al atom. In the third F site, F is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one Al and one Pb atom. In the fourth F site, F is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Al, and one Pb atom. In the fifth F site, F is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one Al and one Pb atom. In the sixth F site, F is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Li, one Al, and one Pb atom.