LiEu₂SmO₄ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnma space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one SmO₆ octahedra, corners with three equivalent EuO₆ pentagonal pyramids, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent SmO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent EuO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with three equivalent EuO₆ pentagonal pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 2°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.88-2.07 Å. There are two inequivalent Eu²⁺ sites. In the first Eu²⁺ site, Eu²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted EuO₆ pentagonal pyramids that share corners with three equivalent SmO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent EuO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent SmO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one EuO₇ pentagonal bipyramid, edges with four equivalent EuO₆ pentagonal pyramids, and edges with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 33-75°. There are a spread of Eu-O bond distances ranging from 2.53-2.64 Å. In the second Eu²⁺ site, Eu²⁺ is bonded to seven O²⁻ atoms to form distorted EuO₇ pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with four equivalent SmO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent EuO₆ pentagonal pyramids, edges with four equivalent SmO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent EuO₇ pentagonal bipyramids,  an edgeedge with one EuO₆ pentagonal pyramid, edges with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, and faces with two equivalent EuO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 13-17°. There are a spread of Eu-O bond distances ranging from 2.62-2.72 Å. Sm³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form SmO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent EuO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, corners with three equivalent EuO₆ pentagonal pyramids,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent SmO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent EuO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent EuO₆ pentagonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Sm-O bond distances ranging from 2.32-2.41 Å. There are four inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, four Eu²⁺, and one Sm³⁺ atom to form distorted OLiSmEu₄ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent OSm₂Eu₃ square pyramids, edges with two equivalent OLiSmEu₄ octahedra, and edges with three equivalent OSm₂Eu₃ square pyramids. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺, three equivalent Eu²⁺, and one Sm³⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three equivalent Eu²⁺ and two equivalent Sm³⁺ atoms to form distorted OSm₂Eu₃ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent OLiSmEu₄ octahedra, edges with three equivalent OLiSmEu₄ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent OSm₂Eu₃ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 19°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, three Eu²⁺, and two equivalent Sm³⁺ atoms.