Li₃SiBiO₅ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pna2₁ space group. There are three inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.16 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.07 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.14 Å. Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with seven LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with three equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.63-1.72 Å. Bi³⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Bi-O bond distances ranging from 2.16-2.96 Å. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺ and two equivalent Bi³⁺ atoms to form distorted OLi₂Bi₂ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent OLi₂Bi₂ tetrahedra and corners with three OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent OLi₂Bi₂ tetrahedra and corners with four equivalent OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OLi₂Bi₂ tetrahedra and corners with six OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and two equivalent Bi³⁺ atoms. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom.