RbLiMg₃₀O₃₁ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmm2 space group. Rb¹⁺ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to four Mg²⁺ and five O²⁻ atoms. There are two shorter (2.75 Å) and two longer (2.76 Å) Rb-Mg bond lengths. There are four shorter (2.47 Å) and one longer (2.88 Å) Rb-O bond length. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgRbO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.35 Å. There are sixteen inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.17 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgRbO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.25 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgRbO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.24 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgRbO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 10-11°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.13 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.17 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgRbO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.22 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two MgRbO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-10°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.22 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with three MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.11-2.19 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to one Rb¹⁺ and five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgRbO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four ORbLiMg₄ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one ORbMg₅ square pyramid, corners with three MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgRbO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-134°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-2.14 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgRbO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgRbO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.22 Å. In the eleventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgRbO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 4-10°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.04-2.30 Å. In the twelfth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.13-2.17 Å. In the thirteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgRbO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgRbO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.22 Å. In the fourteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to one Rb¹⁺ and five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgRbO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four ORbLiMg₄ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one ORbMg₅ square pyramid, corners with three MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgRbO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 4-133°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.12 Å. In the fifteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.20 Å. In the sixteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgRbO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.26 Å. There are seventeen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra, corners with two equivalent ORbMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Rb¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted ORbMg₅ square pyramids that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra, corners with four MgRbO₅ square pyramids, and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 4-7°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent ORbMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eleven OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-18°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra, edges with eleven OLiMg₅ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one ORbMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-6°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Rb¹⁺, one Li¹⁺, and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted ORbLiMg₄ octahedra that share corners with six ORbLiMg₄ octahedra, corners with four MgRbO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one ORbMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-37°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-4°. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra, edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one ORbMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-15°. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-4°. In the fourteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six ORbMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-8°. In the fifteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Rb¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted ORbMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra, corners with four MgRbO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one ORbMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5-36°. In the sixteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-5°. In the seventeenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six ORbMg₅ octahedra, edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one ORbMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-14°.