LiMg₆GaO₈ is alpha Po-derived structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.10 Å) and two longer (2.19 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.07 Å) and four longer (2.10 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.10 Å) and two longer (2.23 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.16 Å. Ga³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GaO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.02 Å) and four longer (2.10 Å) Ga-O bond lengths. There are six inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Ga octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Ga³⁺ atom to form OMg₅Ga octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₅Ga octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺, two equivalent Mg²⁺, and two equivalent Ga³⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₂Ga₂ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₂Ga₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₂Ga₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺, two equivalent Mg²⁺, and two equivalent Ga³⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₂Ga₂ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₂Ga₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.09 Å. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₂Ga₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.16 Å.