LiGd₆In₂O₁₂ crystallizes in the trigonal R3 space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with three equivalent GdO₆ pentagonal pyramids,  a faceface with one InO₆ octahedra,  a faceface with one InO₆ octahedra, and faces with three equivalent GdO₆ pentagonal pyramids. There are three shorter (2.24 Å) and three longer (2.35 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent Gd³⁺ sites. In the first Gd³⁺ site, Gd³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GdO₆ pentagonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one InO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one InO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent GdO₆ pentagonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one InO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one InO₆ octahedra, and  a faceface with one LiO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 35-38°. There are a spread of Gd-O bond distances ranging from 2.30-2.39 Å. In the second Gd³⁺ site, Gd³⁺ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Gd-O bond distances ranging from 2.25-2.49 Å. In²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted InO₆ octahedra that share corners with three equivalent GdO₆ pentagonal pyramids, edges with three equivalent GdO₆ pentagonal pyramids, and  a faceface with one LiO₆ octahedra. There are three shorter (2.22 Å) and three longer (2.36 Å) In-O bond lengths. In³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form InO₆ octahedra that share corners with three equivalent GdO₆ pentagonal pyramids, edges with three equivalent GdO₆ pentagonal pyramids, and  a faceface with one LiO₆ octahedra. There are three shorter (2.22 Å) and three longer (2.23 Å) In-O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted see-saw-like geometry to three Gd³⁺ and one In³⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Gd³⁺ and one In²⁺ atom to form distorted OGd₃In trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent OLiGd₃In square pyramids, corners with four equivalent OGd₃In trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLiGd₃In square pyramid. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, three Gd³⁺, and one In²⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, three Gd³⁺, and one In³⁺ atom to form distorted OLiGd₃In square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent OGd₃In trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one OGd₃In trigonal pyramid, and faces with two equivalent OLiGd₃In square pyramids.