Li₂B₃Bi₅O₁₃ crystallizes in the monoclinic P2₁/m space group. There are two inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.47 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one BiO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one BiO₇ pentagonal bipyramid, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent BiO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 27°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.38 Å. There are three inequivalent B³⁺ sites. In the first B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.37-1.41 Å. In the second B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are two shorter (1.39 Å) and one longer (1.40 Å) B-O bond length. In the third B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.37-1.44 Å. There are five inequivalent Bi³⁺ sites. In the first Bi³⁺ site, Bi³⁺ is bonded to seven O²⁻ atoms to form distorted BiO₇ pentagonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, edges with four equivalent BiO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Bi-O bond distances ranging from 2.33-2.55 Å. In the second Bi³⁺ site, Bi³⁺ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Bi-O bond distances ranging from 2.34-2.59 Å. In the third Bi³⁺ site, Bi³⁺ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Bi-O bond distances ranging from 2.32-2.55 Å. In the fourth Bi³⁺ site, Bi³⁺ is bonded to seven O²⁻ atoms to form distorted BiO₇ pentagonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one BiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent BiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent BiO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 54°. There are a spread of Bi-O bond distances ranging from 2.32-2.59 Å. In the fifth Bi³⁺ site, Bi³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted BiO₆ octahedra that share  a cornercorner with one BiO₇ pentagonal bipyramid,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, edges with two equivalent BiO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent BiO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Bi-O bond distances ranging from 2.34-2.53 Å. There are thirteen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, one B³⁺, and two equivalent Bi³⁺ atoms. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Li¹⁺, one B³⁺, and two equivalent Bi³⁺ atoms. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺, one B³⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₂BiB tetrahedra. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one B³⁺ and two equivalent Bi³⁺ atoms. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Bi³⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OBi₄ tetrahedra. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one B³⁺ and three Bi³⁺ atoms. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted water-like geometry to one Li¹⁺, one B³⁺, and two equivalent Bi³⁺ atoms. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Bi³⁺ atoms to form OBi₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four OBi₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent OLi₃BiB trigonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent OBi₄ tetrahedra. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, one B³⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three equivalent Li¹⁺, one B³⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃BiB trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three equivalent OBi₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OLi₃BiB trigonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent OLi₃BiB trigonal bipyramids. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one B³⁺ and three Bi³⁺ atoms. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Bi³⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OBi₄ tetrahedra. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Bi³⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OBi₄ tetrahedra.