RbLi₃S₂O₉ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Rb is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of Rb-O bond distances ranging from 2.81-2.93 Å. There are three inequivalent Li sites. In the first Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two equivalent SO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (2.01 Å) and two longer (2.02 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the second Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two equivalent SO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.01 Å. In the third Li site, Li is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.87-2.17 Å. There are two inequivalent S sites. In the first S site, S is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to three O atoms. There is one shorter (1.49 Å) and two longer (1.54 Å) S-O bond lengths. In the second S site, S is bonded to four O atoms to form SO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of S-O bond distances ranging from 1.48-1.50 Å. There are nine inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two Li and one S atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to one Li and one S atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Rb, one Li, and one O atom. The O-O bond length is 1.28 Å. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to two Li and one S atom. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two Li and one S atom. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to one Li and one S atom. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one Rb, one Li, and one S atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one Rb, one Li, and one S atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one Li and one O atom.