LiMg₆BO₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent BO₅ square pyramids. All Li-O bond lengths are 2.06 Å. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. There are four shorter (2.06 Å) and one longer (2.10 Å) Mg-O bond length. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 79°. There is one shorter (2.01 Å) and four longer (2.10 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There is one shorter (2.02 Å) and two longer (2.10 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent BO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 4-20°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.13 Å. B¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted BO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent BO₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids. There is one shorter (1.38 Å) and four longer (2.09 Å) B-O bond lengths. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OLiMg₅ octahedra, edges with four equivalent OLi₂Mg₂B₂ octahedra, edges with four equivalent OMg₄B square pyramids, and edges with four equivalent OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 4°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OMg₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent OLi₂Mg₂B₂ octahedra, corners with four equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and corners with four equivalent OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 78°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four equivalent Mg²⁺ and one B¹⁺ atom to form distorted OMg₄B square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent OMg₄B square pyramids, corners with four equivalent OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with eight OLiMg₅ octahedra. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺, two Mg²⁺, and two equivalent B¹⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₂B₂ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OLi₂Mg₂B₂ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one OMg₅ trigonal bipyramid, edges with six OLiMg₅ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₄B square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 8-20°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OLi₂Mg₂B₂ octahedra, corners with four OMg₅ square pyramids, corners with four equivalent OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent OLiMg₅ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted.