Li₁₀B₁₄O₂₅Cl₂ crystallizes in the cubic F23 space group. There are two inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three equivalent O²⁻ and one Cl¹⁻ atom. All Li-O bond lengths are 2.02 Å. The Li-Cl bond length is 2.44 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ and one Cl¹⁻ atom to form distorted LiClO₄ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with six BO₄ tetrahedra and corners with five equivalent LiClO₄ trigonal bipyramids. There are two shorter (2.08 Å) and two longer (2.18 Å) Li-O bond lengths. The Li-Cl bond length is 2.53 Å. There are three inequivalent B³⁺ sites. In the first B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three equivalent O²⁻ atoms. All B-O bond lengths are 1.38 Å. In the second B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form BO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with six BO₄ tetrahedra and corners with three equivalent LiClO₄ trigonal bipyramids. There are three shorter (1.44 Å) and one longer (1.72 Å) B-O bond length. In the third B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form BO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent BO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four equivalent LiClO₄ trigonal bipyramids. There are two shorter (1.48 Å) and two longer (1.49 Å) B-O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four equivalent B³⁺ atoms to form corner-sharing OB₄ tetrahedra. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺ and two B³⁺ atoms to form distorted OLi₂B₂ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one ClLi₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one ClLi₄ tetrahedra, and corners with seven OB₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 82°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two B³⁺ atoms. There are two inequivalent Cl¹⁻ sites. In the first Cl¹⁻ site, Cl¹⁻ is bonded to six equivalent Li¹⁺ atoms to form ClLi₆ octahedra that share corners with twelve equivalent OLi₂B₂ tetrahedra. In the second Cl¹⁻ site, Cl¹⁻ is bonded to four equivalent Li¹⁺ atoms to form ClLi₄ tetrahedra that share corners with twelve equivalent OLi₂B₂ tetrahedra.