LiMg₃₀BO₃₁ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmm2 space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.31 Å. There are sixteen inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a T-shaped geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are two shorter (2.01 Å) and one longer (2.05 Å) Mg-O bond length. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.19 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.19 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.13 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.18 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.26 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-34°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.33 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with three MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.17 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5-11°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.18 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.27 Å. In the eleventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.19 Å. In the twelfth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-15°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.24 Å. In the thirteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.18 Å. In the fourteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-35°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.26 Å. In the fifteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.19 Å. In the sixteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-12°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.27 Å. B¹⁺ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are two shorter (1.46 Å) and one longer (1.47 Å) B-O bond length. There are seventeen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra, edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one B¹⁺ atom to form distorted OMg₅B octahedra that share corners with two equivalent OMg₆ octahedra, corners with three OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 2°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent OLiMg₅ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 2°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₅ square pyramids that share corners with five OMg₅B octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-9°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra, edges with nine OLiMg₅ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-7°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra, edges with nine OLiMg₅ octahedra, and edges with two OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-6°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with nine OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-9°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OMg₅ square pyramids that share corners with five OMg₅B octahedra, corners with two OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-92°. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eleven OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-9°. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, edges with eleven OMg₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-4°. In the fourteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra, edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-2°. In the fifteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to four Mg²⁺ and one B¹⁺ atom. In the sixteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-2°. In the seventeenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra, edges with ten OMg₅B octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-8°.