LiMg₁₄LaO₁₆ is Caswellsilverite-derived structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmmm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LaO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.29 Å. There are eight inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.19 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LaO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.00 Å) and four longer (2.19 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LaO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.39 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.13-2.22 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.14-2.21 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LaO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.32 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LaO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.32 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LaO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.31 Å. La³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LaO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LaO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of La-O bond distances ranging from 2.19-2.35 Å. There are twelve inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one La³⁺ atom to form OLaMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one La³⁺ atom to form OLaMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.31 Å. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-12°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Mg²⁺ and two equivalent La³⁺ atoms to form OLa₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLa₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, four Mg²⁺, and one La³⁺ atom to form OLiLaMg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLiLaMg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, four Mg²⁺, and one La³⁺ atom to form OLiLaMg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLiLaMg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are two shorter (2.19 Å) and two longer (2.22 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiLaMg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiLaMg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are two shorter (2.14 Å) and two longer (2.19 Å) O-Mg bond lengths.