Li₄Sb(TeO₄)₃ crystallizes in the monoclinic P2 space group. There are four inequivalent Li sites. In the first Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with eight TeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 49-68°. There are two shorter (1.95 Å) and two longer (2.16 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the second Li site, Li is bonded in a distorted see-saw-like geometry to four O atoms. There are two shorter (2.04 Å) and two longer (2.21 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the third Li site, Li is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O atoms. There are two shorter (1.95 Å) and two longer (2.24 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the fourth Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with four equivalent SbO₆ octahedra and corners with four TeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 37-80°. There are two shorter (2.02 Å) and two longer (2.21 Å) Li-O bond lengths. Sb is bonded to six O atoms to form SbO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TeO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent TeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 53°. There are a spread of Sb-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.09 Å. There are three inequivalent Te sites. In the first Te site, Te is bonded to six O atoms to form TeO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SbO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent TeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 53°. There are a spread of Te-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.22 Å. In the second Te site, Te is bonded to six O atoms to form TeO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TeO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent SbO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 57°. There are a spread of Te-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.04 Å. In the third Te site, Te is bonded to six O atoms to form TeO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TeO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two equivalent TeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 57°. There are a spread of Te-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.46 Å. There are six inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded to two Li, one Sb, and one Te atom to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₂SbTe trigonal pyramids. In the second O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li and two Te atoms. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Sb, and one Te atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li and two Te atoms. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Sb, and one Te atom. In the sixth O site, O is bonded to two Li and two Te atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₂Te₂ trigonal pyramids.