LiBaAl₃P₂(HO₇)₂ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Li is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.20 Å. Ba is bonded in a 10-coordinate geometry to ten O atoms. There are a spread of Ba-O bond distances ranging from 2.72-3.10 Å. There are three inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form distorted AlO₆ octahedra that share corners with four AlO₆ octahedra and corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 37-39°. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.86-1.88 Å. In the second Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form AlO₆ octahedra that share corners with four AlO₆ octahedra and corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 37-63°. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.86-1.98 Å. In the third Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form AlO₆ octahedra that share corners with four AlO₆ octahedra and corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 37-63°. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.86-1.97 Å. There are two inequivalent P sites. In the first P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three AlO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 44-53°. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.49-1.60 Å. In the second P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three AlO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 50-53°. There is one shorter (1.52 Å) and three longer (1.57 Å) P-O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent H sites. In the first H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. In the second H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. There are fourteen inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one P atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one Li and one P atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one Ba, one Al, and one P atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Ba, one Al, and one P atom. In the fifth O site, O is bonded to one Li, one Ba, one Al, and one P atom to form distorted OBaLiAlP trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OBaLiAlP trigonal pyramid,  an edgeedge with one OLiAl₂H tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OBaLiAlP trigonal pyramid. In the sixth O site, O is bonded to one Li, one Ba, one Al, and one P atom to form distorted OBaLiAlP trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OBaLiAlP trigonal pyramid,  an edgeedge with one OLiAl₂H tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OBaLiAlP trigonal pyramid. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Ba, one Al, and one P atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Ba, one Al, and one P atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded to one Li, two Al, and one H atom to form distorted edge-sharing OLiAl₂H tetrahedra. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two Al and one H atom. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one Ba and two Al atoms. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one Ba and two Al atoms. In the thirteenth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Ba, two Al, and one O atom. The O-O bond length is 1.54 Å. In the fourteenth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Ba, two Al, and one O atom.