Rb₄Li(Se₂O₇)₂ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. There are four inequivalent Rb sites. In the first Rb site, Rb is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O atoms. There are a spread of Rb-O bond distances ranging from 3.06-3.44 Å. In the second Rb site, Rb is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O atoms. There are a spread of Rb-O bond distances ranging from 2.94-3.41 Å. In the third Rb site, Rb is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O atoms. There are a spread of Rb-O bond distances ranging from 2.81-3.11 Å. In the fourth Rb site, Rb is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O atoms. There are a spread of Rb-O bond distances ranging from 2.86-3.44 Å. Li is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two SeO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.10 Å. There are four inequivalent Se sites. In the first Se site, Se is bonded in a tetrahedral geometry to four O atoms. There are three shorter (1.67 Å) and one longer (1.71 Å) Se-O bond length. In the second Se site, Se is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of Se-O bond distances ranging from 1.68-1.72 Å. In the third Se site, Se is bonded to four O atoms to form SeO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra and  a cornercorner with one SeO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Se-O bond distances ranging from 1.64-1.85 Å. In the fourth Se site, Se is bonded to four O atoms to form SeO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra and  a cornercorner with one SeO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Se-O bond distances ranging from 1.64-1.84 Å. There are fourteen inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three Rb and one Se atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Rb, one Li, and one Se atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to three Rb and one Se atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to three Rb and one Se atom. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a distorted tetrahedral geometry to three Rb and one Se atom. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Rb and one Se atom. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to three Rb and one Se atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to two Rb, one Li, and one Se atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to three Rb and one Se atom. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted L-shaped geometry to two Rb, one Li, and one Se atom. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded in a distorted water-like geometry to one Rb, one Li, and one Se atom. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to two Rb and one Se atom. In the thirteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Se atom. In the fourteenth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two Se atoms.