LiMg₁₄CeO₁₆ is Caswellsilverite-derived structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmmm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent CeO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.29 Å. There are seven inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.18 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent CeO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.03 Å) and four longer (2.18 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent CeO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.39 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.13-2.22 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.15-2.20 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent CeO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.32 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one CeO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.31 Å. Ce³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form CeO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent CeO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Ce-O bond distances ranging from 2.18-2.31 Å. There are twelve inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Ce³⁺ atom to form OCeMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Ce³⁺ atom to form OCeMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are two shorter (2.18 Å) and two longer (2.31 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-12°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Mg²⁺ and two equivalent Ce³⁺ atoms to form OCe₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OCeMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OCe₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OCeMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, four Mg²⁺, and one Ce³⁺ atom to form OLiCeMg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLiCeMg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, four Mg²⁺, and one Ce³⁺ atom to form OLiCeMg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLiCeMg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. There are two shorter (2.18 Å) and two longer (2.22 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiCeMg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiCeMg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are two shorter (2.13 Å) and two longer (2.18 Å) O-Mg bond lengths.