LiZn₄(SnO₂)₄ is Chalcostibite-derived structured and crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Li is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are two shorter (1.87 Å) and one longer (2.11 Å) Li-O bond length. There are four inequivalent Zn sites. In the first Zn site, Zn is bonded to four O atoms to form corner-sharing ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.09 Å. In the second Zn site, Zn is bonded to four O atoms to form corner-sharing ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.18 Å. In the third Zn site, Zn is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O atoms. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.18 Å. In the fourth Zn site, Zn is bonded to four O atoms to form corner-sharing ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.06 Å. There are four inequivalent Sn sites. In the first Sn site, Sn is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to three O atoms. There are two shorter (2.14 Å) and one longer (2.23 Å) Sn-O bond length. In the second Sn site, Sn is bonded in a distorted L-shaped geometry to two O atoms. There is one shorter (2.15 Å) and one longer (2.25 Å) Sn-O bond length. In the third Sn site, Sn is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.19-2.27 Å. In the fourth Sn site, Sn is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to three O atoms. There are two shorter (2.13 Å) and one longer (2.22 Å) Sn-O bond length. There are eight inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Zn and two equivalent Sn atoms. In the second O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two equivalent Zn and one Sn atom. In the third O site, O is bonded to two equivalent Zn and two Sn atoms to form OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra and edges with two equivalent OLiZn₂Sn₂ trigonal bipyramids. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Zn and two equivalent Sn atoms. In the fifth O site, O is bonded to three Zn and one Sn atom to form OZn₃Sn tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent OZn₃Sn tetrahedra and corners with two equivalent OLiZn₂Sn₂ trigonal bipyramids. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a see-saw-like geometry to two equivalent Li and two Zn atoms. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Zn and one Sn atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded to one Li, two Zn, and two equivalent Sn atoms to form distorted OLiZn₂Sn₂ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent OZn₃Sn tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OLiZn₂Sn₂ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra.