NaLiMg₃₀O₃₁ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Na¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form NaO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. There is one shorter (2.24 Å) and five longer (2.25 Å) Na-O bond lengths. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with five MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 8°. There is one shorter (1.94 Å) and four longer (2.15 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are ten inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent NaO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.20 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 9°. There is one shorter (1.95 Å) and four longer (2.09 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.20 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent NaO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.17 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one NaO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.16 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with three MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. There are two shorter (2.13 Å) and four longer (2.14 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.12 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one NaO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.19 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.26 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one NaO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.17 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four ONaMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Na¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form ONaMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve ONaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 4°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Na¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing ONaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-12°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-4°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six ONaMg₅ octahedra and edges with eleven OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-13°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Na¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form ONaMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six ONaMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-6°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-13°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six ONaMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-6°.