Li₃Sn(BO₃)₂ crystallizes in the triclinic P̅1 space group. There are three inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one SnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.08 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent SnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.22 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent SnO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.10 Å. There are two inequivalent B³⁺ sites. In the first B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.35-1.43 Å. In the second B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.35-1.42 Å. Sn³⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SnO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.27 Å. There are six inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one B³⁺, and one Sn³⁺ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₂SnB tetrahedra. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one B³⁺, and one Sn³⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one B³⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃B tetrahedra that share corners with five OLi₂SnB tetrahedra and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃B tetrahedra. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one B³⁺, and one Sn³⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₂SnB tetrahedra that share corners with six OLi₂SnB tetrahedra and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃B tetrahedra. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one B³⁺ atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLi₃B tetrahedra. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one B³⁺, and one Sn³⁺ atom.