LiZn₂Al₄O₈ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Imm2 space group. Li is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent ZnO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent AlO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one AlO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.83 Å) and two longer (1.89 Å) Li-O bond lengths. Zn is bonded to five O atoms to form distorted ZnO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with five AlO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two equivalent ZnO₅ square pyramids. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.23 Å. There are three inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded to four O atoms to form AlO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent ZnO₅ square pyramids and corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.87 Å) and two longer (1.93 Å) Al-O bond lengths. In the second Al site, Al is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O atoms. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.86-2.01 Å. In the third Al site, Al is bonded to four O atoms to form AlO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with six equivalent ZnO₅ square pyramids and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.78 Å) and two longer (1.85 Å) Al-O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two equivalent Zn and two Al atoms. In the second O site, O is bonded to one Li and three Al atoms to form distorted OLiAl₃ trigonal pyramids that share corners with six OAl₃Zn tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLiAl₃ trigonal pyramid, and  a faceface with one OLiAl₃ trigonal pyramid. In the third O site, O is bonded to one Zn and three Al atoms to form OAl₃Zn tetrahedra that share corners with five OAl₃Zn tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent OLiAl₃ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OAl₃Zn tetrahedra. In the fourth O site, O is bonded to one Li, two equivalent Zn, and one Al atom to form distorted OLiAlZn₂ tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent OAl₃Zn tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OLiAl₃ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent OLiAlZn₂ tetrahedra.