Li₂Lu₅O₄(BO₃)₃ crystallizes in the monoclinic P2₁/m space group. There are two inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LuO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LuO₇ pentagonal bipyramid, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent LuO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 14°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.26 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.72 Å. There are five inequivalent Lu³⁺ sites. In the first Lu³⁺ site, Lu³⁺ is bonded to seven O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LuO₇ pentagonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LuO₇ pentagonal bipyramid,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, edges with six LuO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Lu-O bond distances ranging from 2.16-2.37 Å. In the second Lu³⁺ site, Lu³⁺ is bonded to seven O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LuO₇ pentagonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LuO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LuO₆ octahedra, and edges with five LuO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 51°. There are a spread of Lu-O bond distances ranging from 2.15-2.43 Å. In the third Lu³⁺ site, Lu³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LuO₆ octahedra that share corners with three LuO₇ pentagonal bipyramids,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, edges with two equivalent LuO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent LuO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Lu-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.31 Å. In the fourth Lu³⁺ site, Lu³⁺ is bonded to seven O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LuO₇ pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent LuO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LuO₇ pentagonal bipyramid, and edges with five LuO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 60°. There are a spread of Lu-O bond distances ranging from 2.13-2.33 Å. In the fifth Lu³⁺ site, Lu³⁺ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Lu-O bond distances ranging from 2.16-2.56 Å. There are three inequivalent B³⁺ sites. In the first B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There is one shorter (1.38 Å) and two longer (1.39 Å) B-O bond lengths. In the second B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are two shorter (1.37 Å) and one longer (1.39 Å) B-O bond length. In the third B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.36-1.42 Å. There are thirteen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three Li¹⁺, one Lu³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺, one Lu³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₂LuB tetrahedra. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Lu³⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLu₄ tetrahedra. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to three Lu³⁺ and one B³⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Lu³⁺ and one B³⁺ atom. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three equivalent Li¹⁺, one Lu³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃LuB trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three equivalent OLu₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OLi₃LuB trigonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent OLi₃LuB trigonal bipyramids. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Lu³⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLu₄ tetrahedra. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Lu³⁺ atoms to form OLu₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four OLu₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent OLi₃LuB trigonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent OLu₄ tetrahedra. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, two equivalent Lu³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to three Lu³⁺ and one B³⁺ atom. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Lu³⁺ atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLu₄ tetrahedra. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Lu³⁺ and one B³⁺ atom. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, two equivalent Lu³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom.