RbLiMg₆O₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Rb¹⁺ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to four equivalent Mg²⁺ and five O²⁻ atoms. All Rb-Mg bond lengths are 2.62 Å. There are four shorter (2.36 Å) and one longer (2.72 Å) Rb-O bond length. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (1.78 Å) and four longer (2.29 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.26 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.26 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a distorted square co-planar geometry to two equivalent Rb¹⁺ and four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-2.26 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.26 Å. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to one Rb¹⁺, one Li¹⁺, and four equivalent Mg²⁺ atoms. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eight OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eight OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-19°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Rb¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form ORb₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-33°.