LiMg₁₄GaO₁₆ is alpha Po-derived structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.12 Å) and four longer (2.21 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are eight inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.04-2.23 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.19 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.19 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.16 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.16 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.16 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.19 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one GaO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 6-9°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.19 Å. Ga³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GaO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.02 Å) and two longer (2.12 Å) Ga-O bond lengths. There are ten inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Ga octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There is one shorter (2.04 Å) and two longer (2.13 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Ga³⁺ atom to form OMg₅Ga octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Ga octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Ga³⁺ atom to form OMg₅Ga octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Ga octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.19 Å. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-6°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Ga octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Mg²⁺ and two equivalent Ga³⁺ atoms to form OMg₄Ga₂ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Ga octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅Ga octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.07 Å. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Ga³⁺ atom to form OMg₅Ga octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅Ga octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. The O-Mg bond length is 2.23 Å.