Li₁₀Zn₃(GeO₄)₄ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. There are ten inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-2.07 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.04 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.04 Å. In the fourth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.08 Å. In the fifth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.10 Å. In the sixth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-2.05 Å. In the seventh Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.44 Å. In the eighth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with five LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.10 Å. In the ninth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-2.03 Å. In the tenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.08 Å. There are three inequivalent Zn²⁺ sites. In the first Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.04 Å. In the second Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with five LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.05 Å. In the third Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.07 Å. There are four inequivalent Ge⁴⁺ sites. In the first Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three ZnO₄ tetrahedra and corners with nine LiO₄ tetrahedra. There is one shorter (1.77 Å) and three longer (1.79 Å) Ge-O bond lengths. In the second Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.77-1.79 Å. In the third Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with seven LiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.77-1.80 Å. In the fourth Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two ZnO₄ tetrahedra and corners with ten LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.76-1.83 Å. There are sixteen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLi₂ZnGe trigonal pyramids. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form corner-sharing OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form corner-sharing OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLi₂ZnGe trigonal pyramids. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₂ZnGe trigonal pyramids. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form corner-sharing OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted pentagonal planar geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the fourteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the fifteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form corner-sharing OLi₃Ge tetrahedra. In the sixteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom.