Li₃AlB₂O₆ crystallizes in the triclinic P̅1 space group. There are three inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one AlO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.06 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one AlO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.23 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent AlO₄ tetrahedra and corners with three LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.64 Å. Al³⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form AlO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.77-1.80 Å. There are two inequivalent B³⁺ sites. In the first B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There is one shorter (1.35 Å) and two longer (1.41 Å) B-O bond lengths. In the second B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.36-1.41 Å. There are six inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal pyramidal geometry to two Li¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to three Li¹⁺ and one B³⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to three Li¹⁺ and one B³⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom.