CsLiMg₆O₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Cs¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted CsO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent CsO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. There are a spread of Cs-O bond distances ranging from 2.27-2.77 Å. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent CsO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.26 Å. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with five MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. There is one shorter (2.22 Å) and four longer (2.26 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with nine MgO₅ square pyramids and edges with four equivalent CsO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (2.17 Å) and four longer (2.29 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.56 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent CsO₆ octahedra, corners with six MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with six MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 90°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.28 Å. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Cs¹⁺, one Li¹⁺, and four equivalent Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OCsLiMg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OCsLiMg₄ octahedra, edges with four equivalent OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent OCs₂Mg₃ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Cs¹⁺, one Li¹⁺, and four equivalent Mg²⁺ atoms to form OCsLiMg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OCsLiMg₄ octahedra, corners with four equivalent OCs₂Mg₃ square pyramids, and edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OMg₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent OCs₂Mg₃ square pyramids, and edges with eight OCsLiMg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 18°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one OCs₂Mg₃ square pyramid, and edges with ten OCsLiMg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Cs¹⁺ and three Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OCs₂Mg₃ square pyramids that share corners with five OCsLiMg₄ octahedra, corners with four equivalent OCs₂Mg₃ square pyramids, edges with two equivalent OCsLiMg₄ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent OCs₂Mg₃ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-84°.