Rb₂Li₁₄Pr₃O₁₄ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Immm space group. Rb¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four equivalent O²⁻ atoms. All Rb-O bond lengths are 3.20 Å. There are three inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to one O¹⁻ and three O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one PrO₆ octahedra, corners with five LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one PrO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one PrO₆ octahedra, edges with two LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 68°. The Li-O bond length is 2.11 Å. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.24 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent PrO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent PrO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and edges with five LiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 22-42°. All Li-O bond lengths are 1.97 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to one O¹⁻ and three O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one PrO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent PrO₆ octahedra, corners with five LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one PrO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 4-45°. The Li-O bond length is 1.93 Å. There are two shorter (1.94 Å) and one longer (2.27 Å) Li-O bond length. Pr²⁺ is bonded to two equivalent O²⁻ and four equivalent O¹⁻ atoms to form PrO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, edges with two equivalent PrO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra. Both Pr-O bond lengths are 2.29 Å. All Pr-O bond lengths are 2.41 Å. Pr³⁺ is bonded to two equivalent O¹⁻ and four O²⁻ atoms to form PrO₆ octahedra that share corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one PrO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. Both Pr-O bond lengths are 2.49 Å. There are two shorter (2.33 Å) and two longer (2.34 Å) Pr-O bond lengths. O¹⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺, one Pr²⁺, and one Pr³⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃Pr₂ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent OLi₃Pr₂ square pyramids, edges with two equivalent OLi₆Pr hexagonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃Pr₂ square pyramid. There are three inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Rb¹⁺, four Li¹⁺, and one Pr³⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Pr³⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Li¹⁺ and one Pr²⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₆Pr hexagonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OLi₆Pr hexagonal pyramid,  an edgeedge with one OLi₆Pr hexagonal pyramid, and edges with four equivalent OLi₃Pr₂ square pyramids.