NaLiMg₆O₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Na¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form NaO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent NaO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. There are a spread of Na-O bond distances ranging from 2.16-2.33 Å. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent NaO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (2.01 Å) and four longer (2.17 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (1.96 Å) and four longer (2.19 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent NaO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-10°. There are two shorter (2.04 Å) and four longer (2.16 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.16 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent NaO₆ octahedra, edges with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 13-21°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.04-2.62 Å. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve ONaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 13°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Na¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form ONaMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six ONaMg₅ octahedra and edges with eight ONa₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-12°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Na¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted ONaMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six ONaMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-21°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Na¹⁺, two equivalent Li¹⁺, and two Mg²⁺ atoms to form ONa₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra that share corners with six ONa₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-14°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six ONa₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-22°.