CsNa₃Li₁₂(GeO₄)₄ crystallizes in the tetragonal I4/m space group. Cs¹⁺ is bonded in a body-centered cubic geometry to eight equivalent O²⁻ atoms. All Cs-O bond lengths are 3.01 Å. There are two inequivalent Na¹⁺ sites. In the first Na¹⁺ site, Na¹⁺ is bonded in a body-centered cubic geometry to eight O²⁻ atoms. There are four shorter (2.57 Å) and four longer (2.84 Å) Na-O bond lengths. In the second Na¹⁺ site, Na¹⁺ is bonded in a body-centered cubic geometry to eight equivalent O²⁻ atoms. All Na-O bond lengths are 2.83 Å. There are two inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.08 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one GeO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.20 Å. Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.77-1.80 Å. There are three inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Na¹⁺, three Li¹⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing ONa₂Li₃Ge octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 66°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Na¹⁺, three Li¹⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Cs¹⁺, one Na¹⁺, three Li¹⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom.