LiTl₄Al₄O₁₂ is Pb (Zr_0.50 Ti_0.48) O_3-derived structured and crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Li is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Tl and four O atoms. The Li-Tl bond length is 2.38 Å. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.83-2.03 Å. There are four inequivalent Tl sites. In the first Tl site, Tl is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O atoms. There are a spread of Tl-O bond distances ranging from 2.21-2.78 Å. In the second Tl site, Tl is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of Tl-O bond distances ranging from 2.21-2.51 Å. In the third Tl site, Tl is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of Tl-O bond distances ranging from 2.26-2.74 Å. In the fourth Tl site, Tl is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to one Li and six O atoms. There are a spread of Tl-O bond distances ranging from 2.27-2.39 Å. There are four inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form distorted corner-sharing AlO₆ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 17-34°. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.86-2.55 Å. In the second Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form distorted corner-sharing AlO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 27-38°. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.12 Å. In the third Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form corner-sharing AlO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 27-29°. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.31 Å. In the fourth Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form corner-sharing AlO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 27-38°. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-2.05 Å. There are twelve inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Tl, and two Al atoms. In the second O site, O is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Tl, and two Al atoms. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three Tl and two Al atoms. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a distorted see-saw-like geometry to two Tl and two Al atoms. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tl and two Al atoms. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tl and two Al atoms. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tl and two Al atoms. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tl and two Al atoms. In the ninth O site, O is bonded to one Li, two Tl, and two Al atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OLiAl₂Tl₂ trigonal bipyramids. In the tenth O site, O is bonded to two Tl and two Al atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OAl₂Tl₂ trigonal pyramids. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Tl, and two Al atoms. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tl and two Al atoms.