LiAl₂Pb₂H₄(O₂F₃)₂ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Li is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four F atoms. There are two shorter (1.96 Å) and two longer (1.97 Å) Li-F bond lengths. There are two inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded to three O and three F atoms to form edge-sharing AlO₃F₃ octahedra. There is one shorter (1.91 Å) and two longer (1.93 Å) Al-O bond lengths. There are a spread of Al-F bond distances ranging from 1.81-1.86 Å. In the second Al site, Al is bonded to three O and three F atoms to form edge-sharing AlO₃F₃ octahedra. There is one shorter (1.91 Å) and two longer (1.93 Å) Al-O bond lengths. There are a spread of Al-F bond distances ranging from 1.81-1.86 Å. There are two inequivalent Pb sites. In the first Pb site, Pb is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three O and one F atom. There are a spread of Pb-O bond distances ranging from 2.40-2.68 Å. The Pb-F bond length is 2.62 Å. In the second Pb site, Pb is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three O and one F atom. There are a spread of Pb-O bond distances ranging from 2.40-2.72 Å. The Pb-F bond length is 2.59 Å. There are four inequivalent H sites. In the first H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. In the second H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. In the third H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O and one F atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. The H-F bond length is 1.65 Å. In the fourth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O and one F atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. The H-F bond length is 1.64 Å. There are four inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two Al, one Pb, and one H atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two Al, one Pb, and one H atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to one Al, two Pb, and one H atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to one Al, two Pb, and one H atom. There are six inequivalent F sites. In the first F site, F is bonded in a distorted L-shaped geometry to one Li, one Al, and one H atom. In the second F site, F is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Al, and one H atom. In the third F site, F is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Al and one Pb atom. In the fourth F site, F is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Al and one Pb atom. In the fifth F site, F is bonded in an L-shaped geometry to one Li and one Al atom. In the sixth F site, F is bonded in an L-shaped geometry to one Li and one Al atom.