Li₄B₈H₅O₁₈ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. There are eight inequivalent Li sites. In the first Li site, Li is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.52 Å. In the second Li site, Li is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.40 Å. In the third Li site, Li is bonded to five O atoms to form distorted LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with four BO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one BO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.36 Å. In the fourth Li site, Li is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.28 Å. In the fifth Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with six BO₄ tetrahedra and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.10 Å. In the sixth Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with six BO₄ tetrahedra. There is one shorter (1.98 Å) and three longer (1.99 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the seventh Li site, Li is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.39 Å. In the eighth Li site, Li is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.03 Å. There are sixteen inequivalent B sites. In the first B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.37-1.39 Å. In the second B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. All B-O bond lengths are 1.38 Å. In the third B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are two shorter (1.37 Å) and one longer (1.41 Å) B-O bond length. In the fourth B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are two shorter (1.38 Å) and one longer (1.39 Å) B-O bond length. In the fifth B site, B is bonded to four O atoms to form BO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one BO₄ tetrahedra and  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.47-1.52 Å. In the sixth B site, B is bonded to four O atoms to form BO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one BO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, and  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.46-1.51 Å. In the seventh B site, B is bonded to four O atoms to form BO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one BO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.46-1.51 Å. In the eighth B site, B is bonded to four O atoms to form BO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one BO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, and corners with two LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.45-1.51 Å. In the ninth B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.36-1.40 Å. In the tenth B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. All B-O bond lengths are 1.38 Å. In the eleventh B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.37-1.39 Å. In the twelfth B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are two shorter (1.37 Å) and one longer (1.39 Å) B-O bond length. In the thirteenth B site, B is bonded to four O atoms to form BO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one BO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, and  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.44-1.51 Å. In the fourteenth B site, B is bonded to four O atoms to form BO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one BO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, and  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.45-1.53 Å. In the fifteenth B site, B is bonded to four O atoms to form BO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one BO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.45-1.51 Å. In the sixteenth B site, B is bonded to four O atoms to form BO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one BO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.44-1.54 Å. There are ten inequivalent H sites. In the first H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.97 Å. In the second H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. In the third H site, H is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to two O atoms. There is one shorter (1.00 Å) and one longer (1.64 Å) H-O bond length. In the fourth H site, H is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to two O atoms. There is one shorter (1.02 Å) and one longer (1.61 Å) H-O bond length. In the fifth H site, H is bonded in a linear geometry to two O atoms. There is one shorter (1.03 Å) and one longer (1.54 Å) H-O bond length. In the sixth H site, H is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to two O atoms. There is one shorter (1.01 Å) and one longer (1.66 Å) H-O bond length. In the seventh H site, H is bonded in a linear geometry to two O atoms. There is one shorter (1.12 Å) and one longer (1.35 Å) H-O bond length. In the eighth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 1.02 Å. In the ninth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. In the tenth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. There are thirty-six inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li and two B atoms. In the second O site, O is bonded to two Li and two B atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLi₂B₂ trigonal pyramids. In the third O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two B atoms. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li and two B atoms. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to two Li, one H, and one O atom. The O-O bond length is 1.35 Å. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Li, one H, and one O atom. The O-O bond length is 1.34 Å. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two B and one H atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to two B and one H atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a distorted see-saw-like geometry to two Li and two B atoms. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li and two B atoms. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded to two Li and two B atoms to form corner-sharing OLi₂B₂ tetrahedra. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded to two Li and two B atoms to form corner-sharing OLi₂B₂ tetrahedra. In the thirteenth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li and two B atoms. In the fourteenth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li and two B atoms. In the fifteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to one Li and two B atoms. In the sixteenth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li and two B atoms. In the seventeenth O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li and two B atoms. In the eighteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li and two B atoms. In the nineteenth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li and two B atoms. In the twentieth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li and two B atoms. In the twenty-first O site, O is bonded to two Li and two B atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₂B₂ tetrahedra. In the twenty-second O site, O is bonded to two Li and two B atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLi₂B₂ trigonal pyramids. In the twenty-third O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to two B and one H atom. In the twenty-fourth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to two B and one H atom. In the twenty-fifth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li and two B atoms. In the twenty-sixth O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li and two B atoms. In the twenty-seventh O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li and two B atoms. In the twenty-eighth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Li and two B atoms. In the twenty-ninth O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li and two H atoms. In the thirtieth O site, O is bonded in a distorted water-like geometry to two Li and two H atoms. In the thirty-first O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one B and two H atoms. In the thirty-second O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one B and one H atom. In the thirty-third O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li, one B, and one H atom. In the thirty-fourth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to one Li, one B, and one H atom. In the thirty-fifth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to one Li and one O atom. In the thirty-sixth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one O atom.