LiTl₄Al₄O₁₂ is Pb (Zr_0.50 Ti_0.48) O_3-derived structured and crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Li is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Tl and four O atoms. The Li-Tl bond length is 2.29 Å. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.77-1.95 Å. There are four inequivalent Tl sites. In the first Tl site, Tl is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O atoms. There are a spread of Tl-O bond distances ranging from 2.25-2.82 Å. In the second Tl site, Tl is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of Tl-O bond distances ranging from 2.26-2.65 Å. In the third Tl site, Tl is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to one Li and seven O atoms. There are a spread of Tl-O bond distances ranging from 2.25-2.62 Å. In the fourth Tl site, Tl is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O atoms. There are a spread of Tl-O bond distances ranging from 2.27-2.65 Å. There are four inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form corner-sharing AlO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 25-30°. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.04 Å. In the second Al site, Al is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.87-2.41 Å. In the third Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form corner-sharing AlO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 25-30°. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.15 Å. In the fourth Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form corner-sharing AlO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 28°. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-2.11 Å. There are twelve inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Tl, and two Al atoms. In the second O site, O is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Tl, and two Al atoms. In the third O site, O is bonded to two Tl and two Al atoms to form distorted OAl₂Tl₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with four OAl₂Tl₂ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one OAl₂Tl₂ tetrahedra, and edges with two equivalent OAl₂Tl₃ trigonal bipyramids. In the fourth O site, O is bonded to three Tl and two Al atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OAl₂Tl₃ trigonal bipyramids. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Tl, and two Al atoms. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tl and two Al atoms. In the seventh O site, O is bonded to two Tl and two Al atoms to form distorted OAl₂Tl₂ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent OAl₂Tl₂ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent OAl₂Tl₃ trigonal bipyramids,  a cornercorner with one OAl₂Tl₂ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one OAl₂Tl₂ trigonal pyramid. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three Tl and two Al atoms. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Tl, and two Al atoms. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three Tl and two Al atoms. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Tl and two Al atoms. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded to two Tl and two Al atoms to form distorted OAl₂Tl₂ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent OAl₂Tl₂ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OAl₂Tl₃ trigonal bipyramid, corners with three equivalent OAl₂Tl₂ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OAl₂Tl₃ trigonal bipyramid.