Li₅Al(SiO₄)₂ is beta beryllia-derived structured and crystallizes in the monoclinic C2 space group. There are four inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent AlO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.99 Å) and two longer (2.06 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one AlO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.87 Å) and two longer (2.08 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.93 Å) and two longer (1.98 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the fourth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.26 Å. Al³⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form AlO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.77 Å) and two longer (1.79 Å) Al-O bond lengths. Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent AlO₄ tetrahedra and corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.62-1.70 Å. There are four inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₂AlSi trigonal pyramids that share corners with four equivalent OLi₂AlSi tetrahedra, corners with six OLi₂AlSi trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃Si tetrahedra. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₃Si tetrahedra that share corners with six OLi₃Si tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂AlSi trigonal pyramid. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids that share corners with six OLi₃Si tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent OLi₂AlSi trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃Si trigonal pyramid. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₂AlSi tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent OLi₃Si tetrahedra, corners with six OLi₂AlSi trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂AlSi tetrahedra.