LiMg₆BO₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent BO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.19 Å. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.09 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one BO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. There are four shorter (2.09 Å) and one longer (2.68 Å) Mg-O bond length. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.37 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent BO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 11-19°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.20 Å. B¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted BO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent BO₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (1.45 Å) and four longer (2.10 Å) B-O bond lengths. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with eight OLi₂Mg₂B₂ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-14°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with eight OLi₂Mg₂B₂ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five Mg²⁺ and one B¹⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺, two Mg²⁺, and two equivalent B¹⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₂B₂ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₂B₂ octahedra and edges with eight OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-9°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₂B₂ octahedra and edges with eight OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°.