Li₂LuSiO₅ crystallizes in the triclinic P̅1 space group. There are two inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent LuO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one SiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 62-78°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.13 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to one O¹⁻ and three O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with five equivalent LuO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one SiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one SiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 54-68°. The Li-O bond length is 2.04 Å. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.14 Å. Lu³⁺ is bonded to two equivalent O¹⁻ and four O²⁻ atoms to form LuO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with nine LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LuO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (2.23 Å) and one longer (2.25 Å) Lu-O bond length. There are a spread of Lu-O bond distances ranging from 2.14-2.24 Å. Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent LuO₆ octahedra, corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two LiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 40-57°. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.63-1.66 Å. O¹⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two equivalent Lu³⁺ atoms. There are four inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Lu³⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal pyramidal geometry to two Li¹⁺, one Lu³⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺, one Lu³⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺, one Lu³⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom.