LiTl₄Al₄O₁₂ is Orthorhombic Perovskite-derived structured and crystallizes in the monoclinic Pm space group. Li is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two Tl and four O atoms. There is one shorter (2.42 Å) and one longer (2.43 Å) Li-Tl bond length. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.83-2.04 Å. There are four inequivalent Tl sites. In the first Tl site, Tl is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Li and four O atoms. There are a spread of Tl-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.42 Å. In the second Tl site, Tl is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to one Li and eight O atoms. There are a spread of Tl-O bond distances ranging from 2.39-2.65 Å. In the third Tl site, Tl is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O atoms. There are a spread of Tl-O bond distances ranging from 2.28-2.61 Å. In the fourth Tl site, Tl is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O atoms. There are a spread of Tl-O bond distances ranging from 2.28-2.68 Å. There are two inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form distorted corner-sharing AlO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 16-38°. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.86-2.28 Å. In the second Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form corner-sharing AlO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 20-33°. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.85-2.06 Å. There are eight inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded to two Tl and two equivalent Al atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OAl₂Tl₂ tetrahedra. In the second O site, O is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three Tl and two Al atoms. In the third O site, O is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one Li, two Tl, and two Al atoms. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tl and two equivalent Al atoms. In the fifth O site, O is bonded to one Li, two Tl, and two equivalent Al atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLiAl₂Tl₂ square pyramids. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to three Tl and two Al atoms. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tl and two Al atoms. In the eighth O site, O is bonded to one Li, two Tl, and two equivalent Al atoms to form distorted OLiAl₂Tl₂ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OLiAl₂Tl₂ square pyramid, corners with two equivalent OAl₂Tl₂ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OLiAl₂Tl₂ square pyramid.