Li₁₀Zn₃(GeO₄)₄ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. There are ten inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.05 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid,  an edgeedge with one ZnO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one GeO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.19 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.12 Å. In the fourth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.73 Å. In the fifth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, and  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.17 Å. In the sixth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.88-2.04 Å. In the seventh Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a distorted see-saw-like geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.08 Å. In the eighth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.05 Å. In the ninth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.30 Å. In the tenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.13 Å. There are three inequivalent Zn²⁺ sites. In the first Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.08 Å. In the second Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.08 Å. In the third Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with three LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.09 Å. There are four inequivalent Ge⁴⁺ sites. In the first Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with five LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.73-1.83 Å. In the second Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four ZnO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.76-1.79 Å. In the third Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three ZnO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with four LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There is one shorter (1.78 Å) and three longer (1.79 Å) Ge-O bond lengths. In the fourth Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with two LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.77-1.85 Å. There are sixteen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra that share corners with three OLi₃ZnGe trigonal bipyramids and corners with three OLi₂ZnGe trigonal pyramids. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃ZnGe trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₄Ge trigonal bipyramid,  a cornercorner with one OLi₂ZnGe trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂ZnGe trigonal pyramid. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₂ZnGe trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one OLi₃ZnGe trigonal bipyramid, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂ZnGe trigonal pyramid. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₂ZnGe trigonal pyramids that share corners with three OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₃ZnGe trigonal bipyramid, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂ZnGe trigonal pyramid. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a see-saw-like geometry to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₄Ge trigonal bipyramid, and corners with three OLi₂ZnGe trigonal pyramids. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₄Ge trigonal bipyramid, and corners with two OLi₂ZnGe trigonal pyramids. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted pentagonal planar geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₂ZnGe trigonal pyramids that share corners with three OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra and  a cornercorner with one OLi₄Ge trigonal bipyramid. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the fourteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₄Ge trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three OLi₂ZnGe tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₃ZnGe trigonal bipyramid, and  a cornercorner with one OLi₂ZnGe trigonal pyramid. In the fifteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted pentagonal planar geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the sixteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom.