RbLiMg₆O₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Rb¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are four shorter (2.74 Å) and one longer (2.95 Å) Rb-O bond length. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 3°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.57 Å. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There is one shorter (2.04 Å) and four longer (2.09 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four equivalent O²⁻ atoms. All Mg-O bond lengths are 2.08 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.12 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with four equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.15 Å. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and four equivalent Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₄ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one ORbLiMg₄ octahedra, corners with four equivalent OLiMg₄ square pyramids, corners with four equivalent ORb₂Mg₃ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with four equivalent OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Rb¹⁺, one Li¹⁺, and four equivalent Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted ORbLiMg₄ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent ORbLiMg₄ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLiMg₄ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent ORb₂Mg₃ trigonal bipyramids, edges with four equivalent OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 21°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids and edges with eight ORbLiMg₄ octahedra. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one ORb₂Mg₃ trigonal bipyramid, edges with six ORbLiMg₄ octahedra, and edges with four OLiMg₄ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-12°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Rb¹⁺ and three Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted ORb₂Mg₃ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three ORbLiMg₄ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OLiMg₄ square pyramids, corners with four equivalent ORb₂Mg₃ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with four equivalent ORb₂Mg₃ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-49°.