LiAlC₁₀Cl₁₂(O₂F₃)₂(CF₃)₆ is Indium-derived structured and crystallizes in the monoclinic P2₁ space group. The structure is zero-dimensional and consists of twelve CF₃ clusters and two LiAlC₁₀Cl₁₂(O₂F₃)₂ clusters. In each CF₃ cluster, C is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to three F atoms. There are two shorter (1.35 Å) and one longer (1.36 Å) C-F bond length. There are two inequivalent F sites. In the first F site, F is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one C atom. In the second F site, F is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one C atom. In each LiAlC₁₀Cl₁₂(O₂F₃)₂ cluster, Li is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two O, two Cl, and two F atoms. There is one shorter (2.05 Å) and one longer (2.06 Å) Li-O bond length. There is one shorter (2.51 Å) and one longer (2.75 Å) Li-Cl bond length. There is one shorter (2.15 Å) and one longer (2.41 Å) Li-F bond length. Al is bonded in a tetrahedral geometry to four O atoms. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.75-1.84 Å. There are ten inequivalent C sites. In the first C site, C is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one C and one O atom. The C-C bond length is 1.61 Å. The C-O bond length is 1.38 Å. In the second C site, C is bonded in a tetrahedral geometry to one C and three Cl atoms. There are a spread of C-Cl bond distances ranging from 1.76-1.80 Å. In the third C site, C is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to three F atoms. There are a spread of C-F bond distances ranging from 1.34-1.38 Å. In the fourth C site, C is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one C and one O atom. The C-C bond length is 1.62 Å. The C-O bond length is 1.36 Å. In the fifth C site, C is bonded in a tetrahedral geometry to one C and three Cl atoms. There is one shorter (1.77 Å) and two longer (1.78 Å) C-Cl bond lengths. In the sixth C site, C is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one C and one O atom. The C-C bond length is 1.62 Å. The C-O bond length is 1.38 Å. In the seventh C site, C is bonded in a tetrahedral geometry to one C and three Cl atoms. There are a spread of C-Cl bond distances ranging from 1.76-1.81 Å. In the eighth C site, C is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one C and one O atom. The C-C bond length is 1.62 Å. The C-O bond length is 1.36 Å. In the ninth C site, C is bonded in a tetrahedral geometry to one C and three Cl atoms. There are two shorter (1.77 Å) and one longer (1.79 Å) C-Cl bond length. In the tenth C site, C is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to three F atoms. There are two shorter (1.35 Å) and one longer (1.38 Å) C-F bond length. There are four inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Al, and one C atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one Li, one Al, and one C atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to one Al and one C atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to one Al and one C atom. There are twelve inequivalent Cl sites. In the first Cl site, Cl is bonded in an L-shaped geometry to one Li and one C atom. In the second Cl site, Cl is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one C atom. In the third Cl site, Cl is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one C atom. In the fourth Cl site, Cl is bonded in an L-shaped geometry to one Li and one C atom. In the fifth Cl site, Cl is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one C atom. In the sixth Cl site, Cl is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one C atom. In the seventh Cl site, Cl is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one C atom. In the eighth Cl site, Cl is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one C atom. In the ninth Cl site, Cl is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one C atom. In the tenth Cl site, Cl is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one C atom. In the eleventh Cl site, Cl is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one C atom. In the twelfth Cl site, Cl is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one C atom. There are six inequivalent F sites. In the first F site, F is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one Li and one C atom. In the second F site, F is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one C atom. In the third F site, F is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one C atom. In the fourth F site, F is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Li and one C atom. In the fifth F site, F is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one C atom. In the sixth F site, F is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one C atom.