NaLiMg₁₄O₁₅ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmm2 space group. Na¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form NaO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent NaO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Na-O bond distances ranging from 2.14-2.35 Å. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, corners with three MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 9°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.16 Å. There are ten inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent NaO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.17 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent NaO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 13°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.16 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.20 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent NaO₆ octahedra, edges with five MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-13°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.13-2.18 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.08 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent NaO₆ octahedra, edges with six MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.23 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.13-2.34 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent NaO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are three shorter (2.14 Å) and three longer (2.18 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one NaO₆ octahedra, and edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 7-16°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.16 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one NaO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.14-2.31 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Na¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form ONaMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four ONaMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-4°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Na¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form ONaMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six ONaMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with ten ONaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-15°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-15°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve ONaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-16°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Na¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form ONa₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve ONaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with eleven ONaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-17°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Na¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form ONaMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with eleven ONaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 6-18°.