Li₂AlBO₄ is Clathrate-derived structured and crystallizes in the monoclinic P2₁/c space group. There are two inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent AlO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.06 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one AlO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one AlO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.13 Å. Al³⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form AlO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent AlO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.75-1.81 Å. B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.35-1.43 Å. There are four inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₂AlB trigonal pyramids that share corners with four equivalent OLi₃B tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OLi₂Al₂ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂Al₂ trigonal pyramid. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one B³⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃B tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent OLi₃B tetrahedra, corners with five OLi₂AlB trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂Al₂ trigonal pyramid. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺ and two equivalent Al³⁺ atoms to form distorted OLi₂Al₂ trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OLi₃B tetrahedra, corners with four OLi₂Al₂ trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one OLi₃B tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂AlB trigonal pyramid.