LiMg₃₀SiO₃₂ is Molybdenum Carbide MAX Phase-derived structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.14 Å) and two longer (2.44 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are eight inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.11-2.18 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.35 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.13 Å) and two longer (2.15 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.12 Å) and four longer (2.16 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-18°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.18 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.15 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. There are two shorter (2.11 Å) and four longer (2.15 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-12°. There are four shorter (2.12 Å) and two longer (2.15 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. Si³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (1.83 Å) and four longer (1.91 Å) Si-O bond lengths. There are fourteen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅Si octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Si³⁺ atom to form OMg₅Si octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Si octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.15 Å. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. There are two shorter (2.10 Å) and three longer (2.11 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are two shorter (2.12 Å) and two longer (2.15 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-3°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, four equivalent Mg²⁺, and one Si³⁺ atom to form distorted OLiMg₄Si octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₄Si octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₄Si octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₄Si octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. There are two shorter (2.13 Å) and two longer (2.14 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. All O-Mg bond lengths are 2.13 Å. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. The O-Mg bond length is 2.10 Å. In the fourteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are a spread of O-Mg bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.15 Å.