Li₃Sb(PO₄)₂ is Hausmannite-derived structured and crystallizes in the monoclinic P2₁/m space group. There are three inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent PO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent SbO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent PO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 59-72°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.16-2.25 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent SbO₆ octahedra, corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one PO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 53-72°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.44 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent SbO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent PO₄ tetrahedra, edges with four LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent PO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 57-71°. There are four shorter (2.10 Å) and two longer (2.30 Å) Li-O bond lengths. Sb³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted SbO₆ octahedra that share corners with eight LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one PO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 53-71°. There are a spread of Sb-O bond distances ranging from 2.20-2.48 Å. There are two inequivalent P⁵⁺ sites. In the first P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one SbO₆ octahedra, corners with five LiO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one SbO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 50-61°. There are two shorter (1.54 Å) and two longer (1.60 Å) P-O bond lengths. In the second P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three LiO₆ octahedra, corners with three equivalent SbO₆ octahedra, and edges with three LiO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 51-61°. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.52-1.61 Å. There are six inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₃P trigonal pyramids. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺, one Sb³⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two Li¹⁺, one Sb³⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two Li¹⁺, one Sb³⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺, one Sb³⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom.