Li₁₀Sn(PO₆)₂ is Chalcostibite-derived structured and crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. There are twenty inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.42 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are two shorter (1.91 Å) and one longer (1.93 Å) Li-O bond length. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.54 Å. In the fourth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to six O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.63 Å. In the fifth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.85-2.64 Å. In the sixth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.87-2.34 Å. In the seventh Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.53 Å. In the eighth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one SnO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one PO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.11 Å. In the ninth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.33 Å. In the tenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent SnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two LiO₄ trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one PO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.64 Å. In the eleventh Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.88-2.11 Å. In the twelfth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two SnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, and edges with two LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.05 Å. In the thirteenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-2.04 Å. In the fourteenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two SnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.12 Å. In the fifteenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one SnO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and  an edgeedge with one PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.08 Å. In the sixteenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two SnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.16 Å. In the seventeenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.84-2.17 Å. In the eighteenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one SnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one PO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.40 Å. In the nineteenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.86-2.55 Å. In the twentieth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.85-2.47 Å. There are two inequivalent Sn⁴⁺ sites. In the first Sn⁴⁺ site, Sn⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SnO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with three LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are two shorter (1.98 Å) and two longer (1.99 Å) Sn-O bond lengths. In the second Sn⁴⁺ site, Sn⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SnO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and corners with three LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.00 Å. There are four inequivalent P⁵⁺ sites. In the first P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.54-1.58 Å. In the second P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three LiO₄ trigonal pyramids and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.55-1.57 Å. In the third P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids, corners with two LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.55-1.57 Å. In the fourth P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.56 Å) and two longer (1.57 Å) P-O bond lengths. There are twenty-four inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃P trigonal pyramids that share corners with three OLi₃P tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₄Sn trigonal bipyramid,  an edgeedge with one OLi₃P tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₄P trigonal bipyramid. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃P tetrahedra that share corners with three OLi₄Sn trigonal bipyramids and  a cornercorner with one OLi₃Sn trigonal pyramid. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form OLi₃P tetrahedra that share corners with three OLi₄P trigonal bipyramids and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃P trigonal pyramid. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Sn⁴⁺ atom. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Sn⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₃Sn trigonal pyramids that share corners with three OLi₃Sn tetrahedra and  a cornercorner with one OLi₄Sn trigonal bipyramid. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃P tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one OLi₃Sn tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₄Sn trigonal bipyramid, and  a cornercorner with one OLi₃P trigonal pyramid. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₄P trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three OLi₃P tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one OLi₄Sn trigonal bipyramid, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃P trigonal pyramid. In the fourteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to five Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the fifteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Li¹⁺ and one Sn⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₄Sn trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three OLi₃P tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₄Sn trigonal bipyramid, and  a cornercorner with one OLi₃Sn trigonal pyramid. In the sixteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Sn⁴⁺ atom. In the seventeenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted see-saw-like geometry to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the eighteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to five Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the nineteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Sn⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₃Sn tetrahedra that share corners with two OLi₃P tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₄P trigonal bipyramid, and corners with two OLi₃Sn trigonal pyramids. In the twentieth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Sn⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃Sn tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one OLi₃Sn tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₄P trigonal bipyramid, and corners with two OLi₃Sn trigonal pyramids. In the twenty-first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Sn⁴⁺ atom. In the twenty-second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Li¹⁺ and one Sn⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₄Sn trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three OLi₃P tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₄Sn trigonal bipyramid,  a cornercorner with one OLi₃P trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₄P trigonal bipyramid. In the twenty-third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the twenty-fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom.