LiMg₁₄BO₁₅ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmm2 space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.11-2.71 Å. There are ten inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.20 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.14 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with five MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-30°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.21 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.19 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with six MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.22 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.08 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.22 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-15°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.35 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ square pyramid, corners with three equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-32°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.04-2.16 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-11°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.29 Å. B¹⁺ is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are two shorter (1.51 Å) and two longer (2.18 Å) B-O bond lengths. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₅ square pyramids that share corners with four OMg₄B₂ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5-83°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eight OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-3°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra, edges with eight OLiMg₅ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-3°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₄B₂ octahedra and edges with eight OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Mg²⁺ and two equivalent B¹⁺ atoms to form OMg₄B₂ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₄B₂ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with four OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-24°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₄B₂ octahedra, edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, four Mg²⁺, and one B¹⁺ atom. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OMg₆ octahedra, edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-4°.