LiMg₃₀LaO₃₂ is alpha Po-derived structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LaO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.00 Å) and four longer (2.24 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are eight inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.17 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LaO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.18 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.14 Å) and two longer (2.15 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.12 Å) and two longer (2.15 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LaO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.26 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.13-2.17 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.13-2.17 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LaO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.22 Å. La³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LaO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.30 Å) and four longer (2.31 Å) La-O bond lengths. There are thirteen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLaMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one La³⁺ atom to form OLaMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OLaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are a spread of O-Mg bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.13 Å. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one La³⁺ atom to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are two shorter (2.22 Å) and two longer (2.26 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are two shorter (2.09 Å) and two longer (2.17 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-7°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, four equivalent Mg²⁺, and one La³⁺ atom to form OLiLaMg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLiLaMg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, four equivalent Mg²⁺, and one La³⁺ atom to form OLiLaMg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLiLaMg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. All O-Mg bond lengths are 2.19 Å. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiLaMg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiLaMg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are two shorter (2.11 Å) and two longer (2.15 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°.