Li₄Sr₃La₅O₁₂ crystallizes in the monoclinic Pm space group. There are four inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramid, and edges with two equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.10 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramid, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.10 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with three LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.07 Å. In the fourth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramid, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with four LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.04 Å. There are three inequivalent Sr²⁺ sites. In the first Sr²⁺ site, Sr²⁺ is bonded to seven O²⁻ atoms to form distorted SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramid, edges with two equivalent LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, edges with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, and faces with two equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Sr-O bond distances ranging from 2.57-2.73 Å. In the second Sr²⁺ site, Sr²⁺ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Sr-O bond distances ranging from 2.53-2.82 Å. In the third Sr²⁺ site, Sr²⁺ is bonded to seven O²⁻ atoms to form distorted SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with five LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, edges with four LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, edges with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, and faces with two equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Sr-O bond distances ranging from 2.52-2.80 Å. La²⁺ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of La-O bond distances ranging from 2.47-2.69 Å. There are four inequivalent La³⁺ sites. In the first La³⁺ site, La³⁺ is bonded to seven O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramid, corners with two equivalent LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, edges with three LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with three LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of La-O bond distances ranging from 2.49-2.67 Å. In the second La³⁺ site, La³⁺ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of La-O bond distances ranging from 2.42-2.74 Å. In the third La³⁺ site, La³⁺ is bonded to seven O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramid, corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, edges with four LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with three LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of La-O bond distances ranging from 2.42-2.63 Å. In the fourth La³⁺ site, La³⁺ is bonded to seven O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, corners with four equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, edges with three LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, edges with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, and faces with two equivalent LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of La-O bond distances ranging from 2.51-2.70 Å. There are twelve inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, two equivalent Sr²⁺, one La³⁺, and two equivalent La²⁺ atoms. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺, one Sr²⁺, one La²⁺, and two equivalent La³⁺ atoms. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, four Sr²⁺, and one La³⁺ atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OSr₄LiLa octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 18-22°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, four Sr²⁺, and one La³⁺ atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OSr₄LiLa octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 18-22°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺, one Sr²⁺, and three La³⁺ atoms. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, two equivalent Sr²⁺, and three La³⁺ atoms. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, two equivalent Sr²⁺, and three La³⁺ atoms. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four La³⁺ atoms. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, two equivalent Sr²⁺, and three La³⁺ atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OSr₂LiLa₃ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 17-22°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, two equivalent Sr²⁺, one La²⁺, and two equivalent La³⁺ atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OSr₂LiLa₃ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 17-22°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺, one Sr²⁺, one La³⁺, and two equivalent La²⁺ atoms. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, one La²⁺, and four La³⁺ atoms.