Li₂Mg₂Si₄O₁₁ is Esseneite-like structured and crystallizes in the triclinic P̅1 space group. There are two inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.23 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.29 Å. There are two inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six SiO₄ tetrahedra and edges with four MgO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.30 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six SiO₄ tetrahedra and edges with four MgO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.46 Å. There are four inequivalent Si⁴⁺ sites. In the first Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two MgO₆ octahedra and corners with two SiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-57°. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.60-1.69 Å. In the second Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three MgO₆ octahedra and corners with three SiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 56-64°. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.62-1.65 Å. In the third Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three MgO₆ octahedra and corners with three SiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 57-65°. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.62-1.65 Å. In the fourth Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra and corners with two SiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 51-65°. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.62-1.68 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Mg²⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₂MgSi trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OMg₃Si tetrahedra and edges with two OLiMg₂Si trigonal pyramids. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two Si⁴⁺ atoms. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two Si⁴⁺ atoms. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Mg²⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Mg²⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OMg₃Si tetrahedra that share corners with five OLi₂MgSi trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one OMg₃Si tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OLiMg₂Si trigonal pyramid. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to two Si⁴⁺ atoms. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to two Si⁴⁺ atoms. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, two Mg²⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLiMg₂Si trigonal pyramids that share corners with three equivalent OMg₃Si tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent OLiMg₂Si trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂MgSi trigonal pyramid. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, two Mg²⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLiMg₂Si trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OMg₃Si tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent OLiMg₂Si trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one OMg₃Si tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂MgSi trigonal pyramid. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two Si⁴⁺ atoms. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a see-saw-like geometry to two Li¹⁺, one Mg²⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom.