LiMg₃₀BO₃₁ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmm2 space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There is one shorter (2.10 Å) and three longer (2.11 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are sixteen inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.19 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.19 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.18 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.14 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.16 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.16 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-35°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.29 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two MgO₅ square pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.16 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with three MgO₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ trigonal bipyramid, and edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-37°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.16 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.17 Å. In the eleventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-10°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.35 Å. In the twelfth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.18 Å. In the thirteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.18 Å. In the fourteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.11 Å. In the fifteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.20 Å. In the sixteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-13°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.22 Å. B¹⁺ is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to two equivalent O²⁻ atoms. Both B-O bond lengths are 1.46 Å. There are seventeen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra, edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₅ square pyramids that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 4-8°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra, edges with nine OLiMg₅ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-6°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra, edges with nine OLiMg₅ octahedra, and edges with two OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-4°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to four Mg²⁺ and one B¹⁺ atom. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra, edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra, edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-3°. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the fourteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the fifteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OMg₅ square pyramids that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra, corners with two OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the sixteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the seventeenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-4°.