LiTl₄Al₄O₁₂ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Li is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Tl and five O atoms. The Li-Tl bond length is 2.58 Å. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-2.31 Å. There are four inequivalent Tl sites. In the first Tl site, Tl is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of Tl-O bond distances ranging from 2.17-2.77 Å. In the second Tl site, Tl is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O atoms. There are a spread of Tl-O bond distances ranging from 2.20-2.65 Å. In the third Tl site, Tl is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to one Li and six O atoms. There are a spread of Tl-O bond distances ranging from 2.33-2.67 Å. In the fourth Tl site, Tl is bonded to five O atoms to form distorted TlO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one AlO₆ octahedra, corners with three AlO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one AlO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one AlO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 74°. There are a spread of Tl-O bond distances ranging from 2.18-2.45 Å. There are four inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded to five O atoms to form distorted AlO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four AlO₅ square pyramids and  an edgeedge with one TlO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.85-1.98 Å. In the second Al site, Al is bonded to five O atoms to form AlO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent AlO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one AlO₅ square pyramid, and corners with two equivalent TlO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 17-37°. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.85-2.01 Å. In the third Al site, Al is bonded to five O atoms to form distorted AlO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one AlO₆ octahedra, corners with three equivalent AlO₅ square pyramids, and  a cornercorner with one TlO₅ trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 33°. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.84-1.99 Å. In the fourth Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form AlO₆ octahedra that share corners with five AlO₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one TlO₅ trigonal bipyramid, and  an edgeedge with one TlO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.22 Å. There are twelve inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one Li, two Tl, and one Al atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tl and two Al atoms. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Tl, and one Al atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a distorted tetrahedral geometry to two Tl and two Al atoms. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three Tl and two Al atoms. In the sixth O site, O is bonded to one Li, two Tl, and one Al atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLiAlTl₂ tetrahedra. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tl and two Al atoms. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one Li, one Tl, and two Al atoms. In the ninth O site, O is bonded to two Tl and two Al atoms to form distorted OAl₂Tl₂ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent OLiAlTl₂ tetrahedra and edges with two equivalent OAl₂Tl₂ trigonal pyramids. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Tl, and two Al atoms. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded to two Tl and two Al atoms to form distorted OAl₂Tl₂ trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OLiAlTl₂ tetrahedra and edges with three OAl₂Tl₂ tetrahedra. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Tl and two Al atoms.