LiMg₆SiO₈ is Caswellsilverite-derived structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. Li is bonded to six O atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.13 Å) and two longer (2.35 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent Mg sites. In the first Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.13 Å) and two longer (2.15 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the second Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.09 Å) and four longer (2.13 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-17°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.21 Å. Si is bonded to six O atoms to form SiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (1.89 Å) and four longer (2.13 Å) Si-O bond lengths. There are five inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded to one Li, four equivalent Mg, and one Si atom to form distorted OLiMg₄Si octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OLiMg₄Si octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-17°. In the second O site, O is bonded to six Mg atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₄Si octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. In the third O site, O is bonded to two equivalent Li and four Mg atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₄Si octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the fourth O site, O is bonded to four Mg and two equivalent Si atoms to form OMg₄Si₂ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₄Si octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the fifth O site, O is bonded to two equivalent Li and four Mg atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₄Si₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₄Si octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.03 Å.