LiSb(TeO₄)₃ crystallizes in the monoclinic P2 space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with six TeO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one SbO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent TeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 45-57°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.23 Å. Sb⁵⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form SbO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TeO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent TeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 46°. There are a spread of Sb-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.09 Å. There are three inequivalent Te⁶⁺ sites. In the first Te⁶⁺ site, Te⁶⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form TeO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent SbO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent TeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 46-57°. There are a spread of Te-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.04 Å. In the second Te⁶⁺ site, Te⁶⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form TeO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TeO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent SbO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 44°. There are a spread of Te-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.02 Å. In the third Te⁶⁺ site, Te⁶⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form TeO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TeO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent TeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 44-55°. There are a spread of Te-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-1.99 Å. There are six inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Sb⁵⁺ and one Te⁶⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two Te⁶⁺ atoms. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Sb⁵⁺, and one Te⁶⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a water-like geometry to two Te⁶⁺ atoms. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a water-like geometry to one Sb⁵⁺ and one Te⁶⁺ atom. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two Te⁶⁺ atoms.