LiNaGe₄O₉ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pca2₁ space group. Na¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted NaO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with eight GeO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one GeO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Na-O bond distances ranging from 2.30-2.61 Å. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one NaO₅ square pyramid, corners with six GeO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two equivalent GeO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-2.20 Å. There are four inequivalent Ge⁴⁺ sites. In the first Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent GeO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with three equivalent NaO₅ square pyramids, and corners with two GeO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 54-57°. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.74-1.79 Å. In the second Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₆ octahedra that share corners with six GeO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one NaO₅ square pyramid, and edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.86-1.90 Å. In the third Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent GeO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, corners with three equivalent NaO₅ square pyramids, and corners with two GeO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 54-60°. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.74-1.81 Å. In the fourth Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent GeO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent NaO₅ square pyramids, corners with three equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and corners with two GeO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 55-56°. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.73-1.81 Å. There are nine inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Na¹⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to one Na¹⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted tetrahedral geometry to one Na¹⁺, one Li¹⁺, and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Na¹⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Na¹⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms.