LiMg₆LaO₈ is alpha Po-derived structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent LaO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.23 Å) and two longer (2.37 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.10 Å) and four longer (2.23 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LaO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.03 Å) and four longer (2.23 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LaO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.39 Å. La³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LaO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LaO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.23 Å) and two longer (2.44 Å) La-O bond lengths. There are six inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OLaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one La³⁺ atom to form OLaMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OLaMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺, two equivalent Mg²⁺, and two equivalent La³⁺ atoms to form OLi₂La₂Mg₂ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂La₂Mg₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂La₂Mg₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺, two equivalent Mg²⁺, and two equivalent La³⁺ atoms to form OLi₂La₂Mg₂ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂La₂Mg₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.39 Å. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂La₂Mg₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.08 Å.