Li₂SnP₂O₇ crystallizes in the monoclinic P2₁/c space group. There are two inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.07 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with five PO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.42 Å. Sn²⁺ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.26-2.66 Å. There are two inequivalent P⁵⁺ sites. In the first P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.53-1.61 Å. In the second P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with three equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.53-1.66 Å. There are seven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Sn²⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Sn²⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two Li¹⁺, one Sn²⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Sn²⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two P⁵⁺ atoms. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom.