NaLiMg₆O₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Na¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form NaO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent NaO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (2.13 Å) and four longer (2.18 Å) Na-O bond lengths. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one NaO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (1.84 Å) and four longer (2.19 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.17 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent NaO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.11-2.17 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.17 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent NaO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.17-2.35 Å. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Na¹⁺, one Li¹⁺, and four equivalent Mg²⁺ atoms to form ONaLiMg₄ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent ONaLiMg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 3°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eight OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve ONaLiMg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with ten ONaLiMg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-16°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Na¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form ONa₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with ten ONaLiMg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-14°.