Li₄Sb(TeO₄)₃ is Ilmenite-derived structured and crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. There are four inequivalent Li sites. In the first Li site, Li is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.04-2.40 Å. In the second Li site, Li is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.38 Å. In the third Li site, Li is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.58 Å. In the fourth Li site, Li is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.59 Å. Sb is bonded to six O atoms to form SbO₆ octahedra that share corners with six TeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 40-42°. There are a spread of Sb-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.14 Å. There are three inequivalent Te sites. In the first Te site, Te is bonded to six O atoms to form TeO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SbO₆ octahedra and corners with four equivalent TeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 41-43°. There are a spread of Te-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.05 Å. In the second Te site, Te is bonded to six O atoms to form TeO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent TeO₆ octahedra and corners with four equivalent SbO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 39-41°. There are a spread of Te-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.13 Å. In the third Te site, Te is bonded to six O atoms to form corner-sharing TeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 39-43°. There are a spread of Te-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.21 Å. There are twelve inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded to two Li and two Te atoms to form distorted OLi₂Te₂ tetrahedra that share corners with four OLi₂SbTe tetrahedra and edges with two OLi₂Te₂ tetrahedra. In the second O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li, one Sb, and one Te atom. In the third O site, O is bonded to two Li, one Sb, and one Te atom to form distorted OLi₂SbTe tetrahedra that share corners with three OLi₂Te₂ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₂SbTe trigonal pyramid,  an edgeedge with one OLi₂Te₂ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂SbTe trigonal pyramid. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li and two Te atoms. In the fifth O site, O is bonded to two Li, one Sb, and one Te atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLi₂SbTe trigonal pyramids. In the sixth O site, O is bonded to two Li and two Te atoms to form distorted OLi₂Te₂ tetrahedra that share corners with three OLi₂Te₂ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₂SbTe trigonal pyramid,  an edgeedge with one OLi₂SbTe tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂SbTe trigonal pyramid. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li and two Te atoms. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li, one Sb, and one Te atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded to two Li and two Te atoms to form distorted OLi₂Te₂ tetrahedra that share corners with three OLi₂Te₂ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₂SbTe trigonal pyramid, and edges with two OLi₂Te₂ tetrahedra. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li, one Sb, and one Te atom. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded to two Li, one Sb, and one Te atom to form distorted OLi₂SbTe tetrahedra that share corners with three OLi₂Te₂ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₂SbTe trigonal pyramid, and edges with two OLi₂Te₂ tetrahedra. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li and two Te atoms.