LiSr₂(H₄O₃)₂ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Li is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two H and four O atoms. There is one shorter (2.07 Å) and one longer (2.10 Å) Li-H bond length. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.86-2.32 Å. There are two inequivalent Sr sites. In the first Sr site, Sr is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of Sr-O bond distances ranging from 2.38-2.74 Å. In the second Sr site, Sr is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O atoms. There are a spread of Sr-O bond distances ranging from 2.47-2.99 Å. There are eight inequivalent H sites. In the first H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 1.02 Å. In the second H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 1.02 Å. In the third H site, H is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li and two O atoms. There is one shorter (1.04 Å) and one longer (1.56 Å) H-O bond length. In the fourth H site, H is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li and two O atoms. There is one shorter (1.04 Å) and one longer (1.55 Å) H-O bond length. In the fifth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. In the sixth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. In the seventh H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. In the eighth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. There are six inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a water-like geometry to two Sr and two H atoms. In the second O site, O is bonded in a distorted water-like geometry to two equivalent Li, one Sr, and two H atoms. In the third O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to two equivalent Sr and one H atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Sr and three H atoms. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to one Li, four Sr, and one H atom. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, two equivalent Sr, and one H atom.