Li₃Zn₃(Ge₃O₈)₂ is Spinel-derived structured and crystallizes in the monoclinic P2₁ space group. There are three inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with five ZnO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one GeO₆ octahedra, and edges with five GeO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.13-2.15 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four ZnO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one GeO₆ octahedra, and edges with five GeO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.15 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one GeO₆ octahedra, corners with three LiO₆ octahedra, and corners with eight GeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 56-66°. There are three shorter (2.01 Å) and one longer (2.02 Å) Li-O bond length. There are three inequivalent Zn²⁺ sites. In the first Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one GeO₆ octahedra, corners with three LiO₆ octahedra, and corners with eight GeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 56-66°. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.02 Å. In the second Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent GeO₆ octahedra, corners with three LiO₆ octahedra, and corners with seven GeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 56-66°. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.02 Å. In the third Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent GeO₆ octahedra, corners with three LiO₆ octahedra, and corners with seven GeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 55-65°. There are three shorter (2.00 Å) and one longer (2.01 Å) Zn-O bond length. Ge³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₆ octahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with five ZnO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four GeO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.87-2.06 Å. There are five inequivalent Ge⁴⁺ sites. In the first Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₆ octahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with five ZnO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one GeO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with three GeO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.02 Å. In the second Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₆ octahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with five ZnO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent GeO₆ octahedra, and edges with two GeO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.03 Å. In the third Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four ZnO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four GeO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.87-2.05 Å. In the fourth Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four ZnO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one GeO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with three GeO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.87-2.05 Å. In the fifth Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four ZnO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four GeO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.02 Å. There are sixteen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, one Ge³⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with ten OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids and edges with two OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Zn²⁺, one Ge³⁺, and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OZnGe₃ trigonal pyramids. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, one Ge³⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with ten OZnGe₃ trigonal pyramids and edges with two OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, one Ge³⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with nine OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids and edges with three OZnGe₃ trigonal pyramids. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one Zn²⁺, one Ge³⁺, and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Zn²⁺ and three Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OZnGe₃ trigonal pyramids that share corners with ten OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids and edges with three OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with twelve OZnGe₃ trigonal pyramids and edges with two OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with ten OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids and edges with three OZnGe₃ trigonal pyramids. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Ge³⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with twelve OZnGe₃ trigonal pyramids and edges with two OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with twelve OZnGe₃ trigonal pyramids and edges with two OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids. In the fourteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with eleven OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids and edges with three OZnGe₃ trigonal pyramids. In the fifteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and three Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiGe₃ trigonal pyramids that share corners with twelve OZnGe₃ trigonal pyramids and edges with two OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids. In the sixteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids.