(Li₃P₃H₄O₁₁)₄O₂ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. The structure consists of one O₂ cluster inside a Li₃P₃H₄O₁₁ framework. In the O₂ cluster, O is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to  atoms. In the Li₃P₃H₄O₁₁ framework, there are six inequivalent Li sites. In the first Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with three PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.01 Å. In the second Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with three PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-1.99 Å. In the third Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-2.33 Å. In the fourth Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.27 Å. In the fifth Li site, Li is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-1.96 Å. In the sixth Li site, Li is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-1.95 Å. There are six inequivalent P sites. In the first P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra and corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.50-1.62 Å. In the second P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra and corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.51-1.62 Å. In the third P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.48-1.62 Å. In the fourth P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.49-1.62 Å. In the fifth P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.49-1.62 Å. In the sixth P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.49-1.62 Å. There are eight inequivalent H sites. In the first H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. In the second H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. In the third H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. In the fourth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.97 Å. In the fifth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. In the sixth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. In the seventh H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. In the eighth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. There are twenty-two inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two P atoms. In the second O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two P atoms. In the third O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two Li and one P atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two Li and one P atom. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to one Li and two H atoms. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li and two H atoms. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two Li and one P atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two Li and one P atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to two P atoms. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two P atoms. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li and two H atoms. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li and two H atoms. In the thirteenth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one Li and one P atom. In the fourteenth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one Li and one P atom. In the fifteenth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to two Li and one P atom. In the sixteenth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to two Li and one P atom. In the seventeenth O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to two P atoms. In the eighteenth O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to two P atoms. In the nineteenth O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to one Li and one P atom. In the twentieth O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to one Li and one P atom. In the twenty-first O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to one Li and one P atom. In the twenty-second O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to one Li and one P atom.