LiSr₂(H₄O₃)₂ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Li is bonded in a distorted see-saw-like geometry to four O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.07 Å. There are two inequivalent Sr sites. In the first Sr site, Sr is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O atoms. There are a spread of Sr-O bond distances ranging from 2.59-3.13 Å. In the second Sr site, Sr is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O atoms. There are a spread of Sr-O bond distances ranging from 2.61-2.70 Å. There are eight inequivalent H sites. In the first H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 1.01 Å. In the second H site, H is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 1.02 Å. In the third H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 1.02 Å. In the fourth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 1.02 Å. In the fifth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 1.00 Å. In the sixth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. In the seventh H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. In the eighth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. There are six inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a distorted water-like geometry to one Li, one Sr, and two H atoms. In the second O site, O is bonded in a distorted water-like geometry to one Li, one Sr, and two H atoms. In the third O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to two equivalent Sr and one H atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to two equivalent Li, two equivalent Sr, and one H atom. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to four Sr and one H atom. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to four Sr and one H atom.