CsLiMg₃₀O₃₁ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmm2 space group. Cs¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted CsO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. There are a spread of Cs-O bond distances ranging from 2.44-2.62 Å. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.40 Å. There are sixteen inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent CsO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with five MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with six MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 7-32°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.88-2.19 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent CsO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.32 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.24 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with three MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with six MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.14 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.15 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent CsO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.85-2.25 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ square pyramid,  an edgeedge with one CsO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, edges with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid, and edges with two MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-22°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.29 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, edges with three MgO₅ square pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.24 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with three MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 7-10°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.26 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one CsO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-11°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.28 Å. In the eleventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra, edges with three MgO₅ square pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.13-2.30 Å. In the twelfth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one CsO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-18°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.42 Å. In the thirteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.14-2.26 Å. In the fourteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with two MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids,  an edgeedge with one CsO₆ octahedra, and edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.21 Å. In the fifteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.24 Å. In the sixteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one CsO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with two MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5-97°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.17 Å. There are seventeen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Cs¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OCsMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-6°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Cs¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OCsMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 4-13°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eleven OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-12°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OCsMg₅ octahedra and edges with nine OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 4-13°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Cs¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OCsMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OCsMg₅ octahedra and edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 4-15°. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eleven OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-13°. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OCsMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-5°. In the fourteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the fifteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Cs¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms. In the sixteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. In the seventeenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eleven OCsMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-15°.