LiMg₄SnO₈ is Spinel-derived structured and crystallizes in the hexagonal P6₃mc space group. Li is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with three equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with three equivalent SnO₆ octahedra, and edges with three equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 61-62°. There is one shorter (1.85 Å) and three longer (2.00 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent Mg sites. In the first Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SnO₆ octahedra, corners with three equivalent MgO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid,  an edgeedge with one SnO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 52°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.04-2.13 Å. In the second Mg site, Mg is bonded to four O atoms to form MgO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent SnO₆ octahedra and corners with nine equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 57-59°. There is one shorter (1.98 Å) and three longer (2.00 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. Sn is bonded to six O atoms to form SnO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with three equivalent MgO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and edges with three equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 52°. There are three shorter (2.08 Å) and three longer (2.14 Å) Sn-O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to three Mg and one Sn atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to four Mg atoms. In the third O site, O is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one Li, two equivalent Mg, and one Sn atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a distorted tetrahedral geometry to one Li and three equivalent Mg atoms.