KLiMg₃₀O₃₁ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. K¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are four shorter (2.38 Å) and one longer (2.59 Å) K-O bond length. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.16-2.20 Å. There are ten inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.24 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 9°. There is one shorter (1.95 Å) and four longer (2.11 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.23 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.04-2.18 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.11-2.21 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with three MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.16 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-11°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.12 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.23 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.25 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.20 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one K¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 5°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-17°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-6°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one K¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OKMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with eleven OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-22°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-4°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-13°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-4°.