Li₂ZnSn₃O₈ is Spinel-derived structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Cmc2₁ space group. There are four inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₆ octahedra, corners with five SnO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with two SnO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 51-68°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.80-2.30 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SnO₆ octahedra, corners with three equivalent ZnO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, edges with five SnO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 51-52°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.18 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SnO₆ octahedra, corners with three ZnO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, edges with five SnO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 49°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.19 Å. In the fourth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₆ octahedra, corners with five SnO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent SnO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 56-63°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.80-2.13 Å. There are two inequivalent Zn²⁺ sites. In the first Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four LiO₆ octahedra and corners with eight SnO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 56-63°. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.00 Å. In the second Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₆ octahedra and corners with eleven SnO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 57-61°. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.03 Å. There are five inequivalent Sn⁴⁺ sites. In the first Sn⁴⁺ site, Sn⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form SnO₆ octahedra that share corners with two SnO₆ octahedra, corners with three ZnO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with three SnO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 52°. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.18 Å. In the second Sn⁴⁺ site, Sn⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form SnO₆ octahedra that share corners with two SnO₆ octahedra, corners with three ZnO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, edges with two LiO₆ octahedra, edges with three SnO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 51-53°. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.18 Å. In the third Sn⁴⁺ site, Sn⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form SnO₆ octahedra that share corners with two SnO₆ octahedra, corners with three ZnO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, edges with two LiO₆ octahedra, edges with three SnO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 48-50°. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.18 Å. In the fourth Sn⁴⁺ site, Sn⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form SnO₆ octahedra that share corners with three LiO₆ octahedra, corners with three SnO₆ octahedra, corners with three ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three LiO₄ trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with two SnO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 49-53°. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.23 Å. In the fifth Sn⁴⁺ site, Sn⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form SnO₆ octahedra that share corners with six SnO₆ octahedra, corners with three ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three LiO₄ trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent SnO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 48-52°. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.20 Å. There are fourteen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two Li¹⁺ and two Sn⁴⁺ atoms. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺ and two Sn⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₂Sn₂ tetrahedra. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two Li¹⁺ and two Sn⁴⁺ atoms. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one Li¹⁺ and three Sn⁴⁺ atoms. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and two equivalent Sn⁴⁺ atoms. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two Li¹⁺ and two Sn⁴⁺ atoms. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Zn²⁺ and three Sn⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OZnSn₃ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two OLi₂Sn₂ tetrahedra, corners with two OZnSn₃ trigonal pyramids, and edges with three OLiZnSn₂ trigonal pyramids. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Zn²⁺ and three Sn⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OZnSn₃ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent OLi₂Sn₂ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OZnSn₃ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent OLiZnSn₂ trigonal pyramids. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and two Sn⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiZnSn₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with three OLi₂Sn₂ tetrahedra, corners with three OLiZnSn₂ trigonal pyramids, and edges with three OZnSn₃ trigonal pyramids. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and two Sn⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiZnSn₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent OLi₂Sn₂ tetrahedra, corners with three OLiZnSn₂ trigonal pyramids, and edges with three OZnSn₃ trigonal pyramids. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and two Sn⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiZnSn₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two OLi₂Sn₂ tetrahedra, corners with three OLiZnSn₂ trigonal pyramids, and edges with three OZnSn₃ trigonal pyramids. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and two Sn⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiZnSn₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two OLi₂Sn₂ tetrahedra, corners with three OLiZnSn₂ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two OLiZnSn₂ trigonal pyramids. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one Li¹⁺ and three Sn⁴⁺ atoms. In the fourteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺ and two equivalent Sn⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₂Sn₂ tetrahedra.