Li₆Sm(BO₃)₃ crystallizes in the monoclinic P2₁/c space group. There are six inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.37 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.54 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one SmO₈ hexagonal bipyramid,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.12 Å. In the fourth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one SmO₈ hexagonal bipyramid, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent SmO₈ hexagonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.33 Å. In the fifth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one SmO₈ hexagonal bipyramid,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent SmO₈ hexagonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.21 Å. In the sixth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one SmO₈ hexagonal bipyramid,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one SmO₈ hexagonal bipyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.88-1.99 Å. Sm³⁺ is bonded to eight O²⁻ atoms to form distorted SmO₈ hexagonal bipyramids that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent SmO₈ hexagonal bipyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with four LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Sm-O bond distances ranging from 2.36-2.57 Å. There are three inequivalent B³⁺ sites. In the first B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There is one shorter (1.37 Å) and two longer (1.40 Å) B-O bond lengths. In the second B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There is one shorter (1.38 Å) and two longer (1.40 Å) B-O bond lengths. In the third B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There is one shorter (1.36 Å) and two longer (1.40 Å) B-O bond lengths. There are nine inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Li¹⁺ and one B³⁺ atom to form distorted edge-sharing OLi₄B trigonal bipyramids. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺, one Sm³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLi₃SmB trigonal bipyramids. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, two equivalent Sm³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three Li¹⁺, one Sm³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one B³⁺ atom. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one B³⁺ atom. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺, one Sm³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to two Li¹⁺, two equivalent Sm³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺, one Sm³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLi₃SmB trigonal bipyramids.