Li₇SiPO₈ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. There are fourteen inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There is one shorter (1.82 Å) and two longer (1.94 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.35 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with eight LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two LiO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.16 Å. In the fourth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with seven LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.17 Å. In the fifth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There is one shorter (1.84 Å) and two longer (1.93 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the sixth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with eight LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.32 Å. In the seventh Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.80-2.24 Å. In the eighth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one SiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.84-2.13 Å. In the ninth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one SiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.07 Å. In the tenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three LiO₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one SiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.05 Å. In the eleventh Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one SiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.84-2.15 Å. In the twelfth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three LiO₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one SiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.81-2.17 Å. In the thirteenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid,  a cornercorner with one SiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.06 Å. In the fourteenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one SiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.07 Å. There are two inequivalent Si⁴⁺ sites. In the first Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with five LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and edges with two LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are three shorter (1.65 Å) and one longer (1.67 Å) Si-O bond length. In the second Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and edges with two LiO₄ tetrahedra. There is one shorter (1.65 Å) and three longer (1.66 Å) Si-O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent P⁵⁺ sites. In the first P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.55-1.57 Å. In the second P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with five LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and edges with two LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are three shorter (1.55 Å) and one longer (1.59 Å) P-O bond length. There are sixteen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₃Si tetrahedra that share corners with four OLi₄P trigonal bipyramids,  a cornercorner with one OLi₃Si trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃Si trigonal pyramid. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids that share corners with three OLi₄Si trigonal bipyramids and corners with four OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₄P trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent OLi₃Si tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₄Si trigonal bipyramid, and corners with five OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃P trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OLi₃P tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₄P trigonal bipyramid, corners with two equivalent OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃P trigonal pyramid. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₄Si trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent OLi₃P tetrahedra, corners with five OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₄Si trigonal bipyramid. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OLi₃Si tetrahedra, corners with three OLi₄Si trigonal bipyramids, corners with two equivalent OLi₃P trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃Si trigonal pyramid. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form OLi₃P tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent OLi₄Si trigonal bipyramids,  a cornercorner with one OLi₃P trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃P trigonal pyramid. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form OLi₃P trigonal pyramids that share corners with three OLi₄P trigonal bipyramids and corners with four OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₄Si trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent OLi₃Si tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₄P trigonal bipyramid, corners with six OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₄Si trigonal bipyramid. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the fourteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃P trigonal pyramids that share corners with two OLi₄P trigonal bipyramids, corners with two OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one OLi₃P tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃P trigonal pyramid. In the fifteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids that share corners with four OLi₄P trigonal bipyramids, corners with two OLi₃Si trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one OLi₃Si tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃Si trigonal pyramid. In the sixteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted pentagonal planar geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom.