LiZn₂Al₄O₈ crystallizes in the monoclinic C2/m space group. Li is bonded to six O atoms to form distorted LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent AlO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5-7°. There are two shorter (1.98 Å) and four longer (2.05 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent Zn sites. In the first Zn site, Zn is bonded to six O atoms to form ZnO₆ octahedra that share edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent AlO₆ octahedra. There are two shorter (2.05 Å) and four longer (2.16 Å) Zn-O bond lengths. In the second Zn site, Zn is bonded to six O atoms to form ZnO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent AlO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5-7°. There are four shorter (2.15 Å) and two longer (2.16 Å) Zn-O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O atoms. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.84-2.03 Å. In the second Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form AlO₆ octahedra that share edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent AlO₆ octahedra, and edges with four ZnO₆ octahedra. There are two shorter (1.92 Å) and four longer (2.01 Å) Al-O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded to one Li, two Zn, and two Al atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiAl₂Zn₂ square pyramids. In the second O site, O is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one Zn and three Al atoms. In the third O site, O is bonded to one Li, one Zn, and three Al atoms to form OLiAl₃Zn square pyramids that share corners with six OLiAl₃Zn square pyramids and edges with six equivalent OLiAl₂Zn₂ square pyramids.