LiCd₄(GeO₃)₅ crystallizes in the triclinic P̅1 space group. Li is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.46 Å. There are four inequivalent Cd sites. In the first Cd site, Cd is bonded to six O atoms to form CdO₆ octahedra that share corners with six GeO₄ tetrahedra and edges with three CdO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Cd-O bond distances ranging from 2.28-2.42 Å. In the second Cd site, Cd is bonded to six O atoms to form CdO₆ octahedra that share corners with six GeO₄ tetrahedra and edges with four CdO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Cd-O bond distances ranging from 2.27-2.41 Å. In the third Cd site, Cd is bonded to six O atoms to form CdO₆ octahedra that share corners with six GeO₄ tetrahedra and edges with three CdO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Cd-O bond distances ranging from 2.27-2.38 Å. In the fourth Cd site, Cd is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O atoms. There are a spread of Cd-O bond distances ranging from 2.21-2.59 Å. There are five inequivalent Ge sites. In the first Ge site, Ge is bonded to four O atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three CdO₆ octahedra and corners with two GeO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 39-63°. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.74-1.81 Å. In the second Ge site, Ge is bonded to four O atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four CdO₆ octahedra and corners with two GeO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 42-63°. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.75-1.80 Å. In the third Ge site, Ge is bonded to four O atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four CdO₆ octahedra and corners with two GeO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 45-64°. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.76-1.80 Å. In the fourth Ge site, Ge is bonded to four O atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three CdO₆ octahedra and corners with two GeO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 47-65°. There are two shorter (1.75 Å) and two longer (1.80 Å) Ge-O bond lengths. In the fifth Ge site, Ge is bonded to four O atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four CdO₆ octahedra and corners with two GeO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 53-61°. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.73-1.82 Å. There are fifteen inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li and two Ge atoms. In the second O site, O is bonded to three Cd and one Ge atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OCd₃Ge tetrahedra. In the third O site, O is bonded to three Cd and one Ge atom to form distorted OCd₃Ge tetrahedra that share corners with three OCd₃Ge tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OLiCd₂Ge trigonal pyramids, and edges with two OCd₃Ge tetrahedra. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li and two Ge atoms. In the fifth O site, O is bonded to three Cd and one Ge atom to form distorted OCd₃Ge tetrahedra that share corners with two OCd₃Ge tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLiCd₂Ge trigonal pyramid, edges with two OCd₃Ge tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OLiCd₂Ge trigonal pyramid. In the sixth O site, O is bonded to three Cd and one Ge atom to form distorted OCd₃Ge tetrahedra that share corners with two OCd₃Ge tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLiCd₂Ge trigonal pyramid, and edges with two OCd₃Ge tetrahedra. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to two Ge atoms. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Cd and two Ge atoms. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two Cd and one Ge atom. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two Ge atoms. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one Li, one Cd, and one Ge atom. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded to one Li, two Cd, and one Ge atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLiCd₂Ge trigonal pyramids. In the thirteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to two Cd and one Ge atom. In the fourteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two Cd and one Ge atom. In the fifteenth O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Cd, and one Ge atom.