LiMg₁₄SiO₁₆ is alpha Po-derived structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. Li is bonded to six O atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.13 Å) and four longer (2.21 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are eight inequivalent Mg sites. In the first Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.04-2.25 Å. In the second Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.19 Å. In the third Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.19 Å. In the fourth Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.16 Å. In the fifth Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.16 Å. In the sixth Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.16 Å. In the seventh Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.19 Å. In the eighth Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 6-10°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.20 Å. Si is bonded to six O atoms to form SiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.01 Å) and two longer (2.13 Å) Si-O bond lengths. There are ten inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded to one Li and five Mg atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Si octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-9°. There is one shorter (2.04 Å) and two longer (2.13 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the second O site, O is bonded to five Mg and one Si atom to form OMg₅Si octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Si octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-9°. In the third O site, O is bonded to five Mg and one Si atom to form OMg₅Si octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Si octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-9°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.20 Å. In the fourth O site, O is bonded to six Mg atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-6°. In the fifth O site, O is bonded to two equivalent Li and four Mg atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the sixth O site, O is bonded to six Mg atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Si octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the seventh O site, O is bonded to four Mg and two equivalent Si atoms to form OMg₄Si₂ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Si octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the eighth O site, O is bonded to one Li and five Mg atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-9°. In the ninth O site, O is bonded to one Li and five Mg atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅Si octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-9°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.07 Å. In the tenth O site, O is bonded to five Mg and one Si atom to form OMg₅Si octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅Si octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-9°. The O-Mg bond length is 2.25 Å.