Li₂Zn₃(Ge₃O₈)₂ is beta indium sulfide-derived structured and crystallizes in the monoclinic P2₁ space group. There are two inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four ZnO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with six GeO₆ octahedra. There are three shorter (2.12 Å) and three longer (2.13 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra and corners with nine GeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 53-67°. There is one shorter (1.94 Å) and three longer (1.99 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent Zn²⁺ sites. In the first Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₆ octahedra and corners with nine GeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 54-66°. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.00 Å. In the second Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra and corners with nine GeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 54-67°. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.00 Å. In the third Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₆ octahedra and corners with nine GeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 53-66°. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-1.99 Å. There are six inequivalent Ge⁴⁺ sites. In the first Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₆ octahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with five ZnO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with four GeO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.86-2.04 Å. In the second Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₆ octahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with five ZnO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four GeO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.85-2.03 Å. In the third Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₆ octahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with five ZnO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four GeO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.85-2.02 Å. In the fourth Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four ZnO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four GeO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.83-2.04 Å. In the fifth Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four ZnO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four GeO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.85-2.01 Å. In the sixth Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four ZnO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four GeO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.86-2.02 Å. There are sixteen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with four OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids and edges with three OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one Zn²⁺ and three Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Zn²⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Zn²⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Zn²⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Zn²⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Zn²⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Zn²⁺ and three Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OZnGe₃ trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OZnGe₃ tetrahedra, corners with three OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids, and edges with three OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Zn²⁺ and three Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OZnGe₃ tetrahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids and edges with three OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with eight OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one OZnGe₃ tetrahedra, and edges with two OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OZnGe₃ tetrahedra, corners with seven OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids, and edges with three OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OZnGe₃ tetrahedra, corners with seven OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids, and edges with three OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids. In the fourteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with eight OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one OZnGe₃ tetrahedra, and edges with two OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids. In the fifteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and three Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiGe₃ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent OZnGe₃ tetrahedra and corners with six OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids. In the sixteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OZnGe₃ tetrahedra, corners with five OLi₂Ge₂ trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one OZnGe₃ tetrahedra, and edges with two OLiZnGe₂ trigonal pyramids.