Li₄Zn(PO₄)₂ is Clathrate-derived structured and crystallizes in the monoclinic P2₁/c space group. There are four inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.07 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.06 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.05 Å. In the fourth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-1.99 Å. Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra. There is one shorter (1.97 Å) and three longer (1.98 Å) Zn-O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent P⁵⁺ sites. In the first P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent ZnO₄ tetrahedra and corners with eight LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.55-1.57 Å. In the second P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent ZnO₄ tetrahedra and corners with eight LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.55 Å) and two longer (1.56 Å) P-O bond lengths. There are eight inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form corner-sharing OLi₃P tetrahedra. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLi₃P trigonal pyramids. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLi₃P tetrahedra. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLi₃P tetrahedra. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Zn²⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom.