RbLiMg₃₀O₃₁ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Rb¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form RbO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Rb-O bond distances ranging from 2.39-2.42 Å. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with five MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 9°. There is one shorter (1.96 Å) and four longer (2.15 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are ten inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent RbO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.27 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 9°. There is one shorter (1.96 Å) and four longer (2.10 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.23 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent RbO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.22 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one RbO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-10°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.11-2.23 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with three MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.15-2.17 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 6-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.14 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one RbO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-13°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.13-2.20 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.14-2.28 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one RbO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-13°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.14-2.21 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four ORbMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Rb¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form ORbMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve ORbMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 5°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Rb¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing ORbMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-13°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-3°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six ORbMg₅ octahedra and edges with eleven OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-13°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Rb¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form ORbMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six ORbMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-8°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-14°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six ORbMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-8°.