Li₁₀PbSi₂O₁₀ is Aluminum carbonitride-derived structured and crystallizes in the monoclinic C2/m space group. There are seven inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.88-2.06 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four SiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and edges with two LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.86-2.00 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and edges with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.06 Å. In the fourth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.63 Å. In the fifth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.43 Å. In the sixth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₅ square pyramids that share corners with three equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with seven LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one SiO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with three LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.35 Å. In the seventh Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are three shorter (2.00 Å) and one longer (2.03 Å) Li-O bond length. Pb²⁺ is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There is one shorter (2.23 Å) and two longer (2.31 Å) Pb-O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent Si⁴⁺ sites. In the first Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and edges with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.64 Å) and two longer (1.66 Å) Si-O bond lengths. In the second Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids and corners with twelve LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.64-1.68 Å. There are eight inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Li¹⁺ and one Pb²⁺ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₅Pb octahedra. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₄Si trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent OLi₅Pb octahedra and  an edgeedge with one OLi₄Si trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 31°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and two equivalent Pb²⁺ atoms. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to five Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom.