LiAl₂Pb₂H₄(O₂F₃)₂ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Li is bonded to two O and three F atoms to form distorted LiO₂F₃ trigonal bipyramids that share edges with three AlO₃F₃ octahedra. There is one shorter (2.06 Å) and one longer (2.10 Å) Li-O bond length. There are a spread of Li-F bond distances ranging from 1.92-1.97 Å. There are two inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded to three O and three F atoms to form AlO₃F₃ octahedra that share  an edgeedge with one AlO₃F₃ octahedra and edges with two equivalent LiO₂F₃ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-1.95 Å. There is one shorter (1.80 Å) and two longer (1.84 Å) Al-F bond lengths. In the second Al site, Al is bonded to three O and three F atoms to form AlO₃F₃ octahedra that share  an edgeedge with one AlO₃F₃ octahedra and  an edgeedge with one LiO₂F₃ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-1.96 Å. There are two shorter (1.82 Å) and one longer (1.87 Å) Al-F bond length. There are two inequivalent Pb sites. In the first Pb site, Pb is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two O and two F atoms. There is one shorter (2.38 Å) and one longer (2.49 Å) Pb-O bond length. There is one shorter (2.50 Å) and one longer (2.56 Å) Pb-F bond length. In the second Pb site, Pb is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one O and three F atoms. The Pb-O bond length is 2.60 Å. There are a spread of Pb-F bond distances ranging from 2.45-2.68 Å. There are four inequivalent H sites. In the first H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. In the second H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. In the third H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. In the fourth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. There are four inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Al, and one H atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two Al and one H atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Al, one Pb, and one H atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to one Al, two Pb, and one H atom. There are six inequivalent F sites. In the first F site, F is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Al, and one Pb atom. In the second F site, F is bonded in a distorted water-like geometry to one Al and one Pb atom. In the third F site, F is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Al, and one Pb atom. In the fourth F site, F is bonded in a water-like geometry to one Li and one Al atom. In the fifth F site, F is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Al and one Pb atom. In the sixth F site, F is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one Al and one Pb atom.