LiSiBiO₄ is Chalcostibite-derived structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pca2₁ space group. There are two inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent BiO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and corners with two equivalent BiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.13 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent BiO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and corners with two equivalent BiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.08 Å. There are two inequivalent Si⁴⁺ sites. In the first Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent BiO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and corners with two equivalent BiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.64-1.68 Å. In the second Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one BiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, corners with two equivalent BiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one BiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.63-1.67 Å. There are two inequivalent Bi³⁺ sites. In the first Bi³⁺ site, Bi³⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted BiO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with five LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one BiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Bi-O bond distances ranging from 2.24-2.71 Å. In the second Bi³⁺ site, Bi³⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted BiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four SiO₄ tetrahedra, and  a cornercorner with one BiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Bi-O bond distances ranging from 2.17-2.52 Å. There are eight inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and two Bi³⁺ atoms.