LiMg₁₄AlO₁₆ is Molybdenum Carbide MAX Phase-derived structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmmm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent AlO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.36 Å. There are nine inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent AlO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.25 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.17 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent AlO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-16°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.19 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.14 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.14 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent AlO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are three shorter (2.11 Å) and three longer (2.12 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.16 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.16 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one AlO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-15°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.17 Å. Al³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form AlO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent AlO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-2.12 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Al³⁺ atom to form OMg₅Al octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅Al octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅Al octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅Al octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.08 Å. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Al octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Mg²⁺ and two equivalent Al³⁺ atoms to form OMg₄Al₂ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₄Al₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Al octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₄Al₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₄Al₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Al octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, four Mg²⁺, and one Al³⁺ atom to form distorted OLiMg₄Al octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₄Al octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Al octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-16°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₄Al octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Al octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-10°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₄Al octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Al octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-10°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.14 Å.