Li₂Al₂Si₄HO₁₄ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. There are two inequivalent Li sites. In the first Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three AlO₄ tetrahedra and corners with three SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.08 Å. In the second Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three AlO₄ tetrahedra and corners with three SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.04 Å. There are two inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded to four O atoms to form AlO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.75-1.78 Å. In the second Al site, Al is bonded to four O atoms to form AlO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four SiO₄ tetrahedra. There is one shorter (1.74 Å) and three longer (1.77 Å) Al-O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent Si sites. In the first Si site, Si is bonded to four O atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with three AlO₄ tetrahedra. There is one shorter (1.63 Å) and three longer (1.64 Å) Si-O bond lengths. In the second Si site, Si is bonded to four O atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with three AlO₄ tetrahedra. All Si-O bond lengths are 1.64 Å. In the third Si site, Si is bonded to four O atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one AlO₄ tetrahedra and corners with three SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.62-1.64 Å. In the fourth Si site, Si is bonded to four O atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one AlO₄ tetrahedra and corners with three SiO₄ tetrahedra. There is one shorter (1.61 Å) and three longer (1.64 Å) Si-O bond lengths. H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. There are fourteen inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Al, and one Si atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Al, and one Si atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to one Al and one Si atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Al, and one Si atom. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Al, and one Si atom. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to two Si atoms. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to two Si atoms. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Al, and one Si atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to two Si atoms. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Al, and one Si atom. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to one Al and one Si atom. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to two Si atoms. In the thirteenth O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one Li atom. In the fourteenth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one Li and one H atom.