LiMg₆GaO₈ is Molybdenum Carbide MAX Phase-derived structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.12 Å) and two longer (2.31 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.12 Å) and two longer (2.15 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.09 Å) and four longer (2.12 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-16°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.21 Å. Ga³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GaO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (1.92 Å) and four longer (2.12 Å) Ga-O bond lengths. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, four equivalent Mg²⁺, and one Ga³⁺ atom to form OLiMg₄Ga octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OLiMg₄Ga octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-16°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₄Ga octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₄Ga octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Mg²⁺ and two equivalent Ga³⁺ atoms to form OMg₄Ga₂ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₄Ga octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₄Ga₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₄Ga octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.02 Å.