Li₅Si₂BiO₈ is beta beryllia-derived structured and crystallizes in the monoclinic C2 space group. There are four inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent BiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.22 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent BiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.93 Å) and two longer (1.96 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (2.01 Å) and two longer (2.07 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the fourth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one BiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.91 Å) and two longer (2.22 Å) Li-O bond lengths. Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent BiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with eight LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.63-1.71 Å. Bi³⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form BiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (2.22 Å) and two longer (2.29 Å) Bi-O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLi₃Si tetrahedra. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₃Si tetrahedra that share corners with six OLi₃Si tetrahedra and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂SiBi tetrahedra. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLi₂SiBi tetrahedra.