Rb₄Li(SO₄)₄ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4₁ space group. There are four inequivalent Rb sites. In the first Rb site, Rb is bonded to eight O atoms to form distorted RbO₈ hexagonal bipyramids that share corners with four SO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two SO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Rb-O bond distances ranging from 2.82-3.28 Å. In the second Rb site, Rb is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O atoms. There are a spread of Rb-O bond distances ranging from 2.92-3.26 Å. In the third Rb site, Rb is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O atoms. There are a spread of Rb-O bond distances ranging from 2.93-3.35 Å. In the fourth Rb site, Rb is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O atoms. There are a spread of Rb-O bond distances ranging from 2.85-3.19 Å. Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four SO₄ tetrahedra and  an edgeedge with one RbO₈ hexagonal bipyramid. There are two shorter (1.97 Å) and two longer (1.98 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent S sites. In the first S site, S is bonded to four O atoms to form SO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one RbO₈ hexagonal bipyramid,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one RbO₈ hexagonal bipyramid. There are a spread of S-O bond distances ranging from 1.48-1.50 Å. In the second S site, S is bonded to four O atoms to form SO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent RbO₈ hexagonal bipyramids and  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There is one shorter (1.48 Å) and three longer (1.49 Å) S-O bond lengths. In the third S site, S is bonded to four O atoms to form SO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one RbO₈ hexagonal bipyramid,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one RbO₈ hexagonal bipyramid. There is one shorter (1.48 Å) and three longer (1.49 Å) S-O bond lengths. In the fourth S site, S is bonded to four O atoms to form SO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of S-O bond distances ranging from 1.48-1.50 Å. There are sixteen inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to three Rb and one S atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one Rb and one S atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one Rb, one Li, and one S atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to three Rb and one S atom. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Rb, one Li, and one S atom. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to two Rb and one S atom. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to three Rb and one S atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Rb and one S atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to three Rb and one S atom. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to two Rb and one S atom. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Rb and one S atom. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to two Rb, one Li, and one S atom. In the thirteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to three Rb and one S atom. In the fourteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Rb, one Li, and one S atom. In the fifteenth O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one Rb and one S atom. In the sixteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to three Rb and one S atom.