Li₂Al₂P₂O₉F crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. There are two inequivalent Li sites. In the first Li site, Li is bonded to five O atoms to form distorted LiO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent AlO₅F octahedra, corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent AlO₅F octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one PO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 53-64°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.17 Å. In the second Li site, Li is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four O and one F atom. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.15 Å. The Li-F bond length is 1.98 Å. There are two inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded to five O and one F atom to form AlO₅F octahedra that share corners with two equivalent AlO₅F octahedra, corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 39-40°. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.85-1.95 Å. The Al-F bond length is 1.89 Å. In the second Al site, Al is bonded to five O and one F atom to form AlO₅F octahedra that share corners with two equivalent AlO₅F octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 39-40°. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.85-1.91 Å. The Al-F bond length is 1.90 Å. There are two inequivalent P sites. In the first P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four AlO₅F octahedra and  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 29-52°. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.52-1.57 Å. In the second P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four AlO₅F octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 30-53°. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.53-1.57 Å. There are nine inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two Li, one Al, and one P atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two Li, one Al, and one P atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Al, and one P atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Al, and one P atom. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one Li, one Al, and one P atom. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one Li, one Al, and one P atom. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to one Al and one P atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to one Al and one P atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li and two Al atoms. F is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li and two Al atoms.