LiAlGe₂O₆ crystallizes in the monoclinic P2₁/c space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.18 Å. Al³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form AlO₆ octahedra that share corners with three equivalent GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent GeO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent AlO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one GeO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.84-2.03 Å. There are two inequivalent Ge⁴⁺ sites. In the first Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted GeO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent AlO₆ octahedra, corners with three equivalent GeO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one AlO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 25-51°. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.74-2.39 Å. In the second Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent AlO₆ octahedra and corners with three equivalent GeO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 46-67°. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.75-1.79 Å. There are six inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, two equivalent Al³⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLiAl₂Ge tetrahedra. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one Al³⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, two equivalent Al³⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLiAl₂Ge tetrahedra. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a T-shaped geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two Ge⁴⁺ atoms.