LiMg₃₀BO₃₁ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with five MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 2°. There is one shorter (2.10 Å) and four longer (2.22 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are ten inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent BO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.42 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 1°. There is one shorter (2.10 Å) and four longer (2.14 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.19 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one BO₅ square pyramid, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.41 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid,  an edgeedge with one BO₅ square pyramid, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-17°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.14 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with three MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.11-2.15 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.17 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one BO₅ square pyramid, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-16°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.21 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.15 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one BO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-16°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.17 Å. B¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted BO₅ square pyramids that share corners with nine MgO₆ octahedra and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-72°. There is one shorter (1.47 Å) and four longer (1.85 Å) B-O bond lengths. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent OMg₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-91°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 1°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one B¹⁺ atom to form distorted OMg₅B octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OMg₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one OMg₅ square pyramid, and edges with twelve OMg₅B octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 8°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra, edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-3°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-3°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅B octahedra and edges with eleven OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-11°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one B¹⁺ atom to form distorted OMg₅B octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅B octahedra,  a cornercorner with one OMg₅ square pyramid, and edges with eleven OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-23°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-5°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅B octahedra, edges with eleven OMg₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-11°.