Li₁₄Be₆(BO₃)₉ crystallizes in the hexagonal P6₃/m space group. There are four inequivalent Li sites. In the first Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent BeO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.06 Å. In the second Li site, Li is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three equivalent O atoms. All Li-O bond lengths are 1.95 Å. In the third Li site, Li is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six equivalent O atoms. All Li-O bond lengths are 2.26 Å. In the fourth Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent BeO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.03 Å. Be is bonded to four O atoms to form BeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with seven LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.63 Å) and two longer (1.66 Å) Be-O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent B sites. In the first B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three equivalent O atoms. All B-O bond lengths are 1.39 Å. In the second B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three equivalent O atoms. All B-O bond lengths are 1.38 Å. In the third B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There is one shorter (1.37 Å) and two longer (1.40 Å) B-O bond lengths. In the fourth B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three equivalent O atoms. All B-O bond lengths are 1.39 Å. There are five inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded to two Li, one Be, and one B atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLi₂BeB tetrahedra. In the second O site, O is bonded to two equivalent Li, one Be, and one B atom to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₂BeB tetrahedra. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li, one Be, and one B atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded to two Li, one Be, and one B atom to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OLi₂BeB tetrahedra. In the fifth O site, O is bonded to three Li and one B atom to form corner-sharing OLi₃B tetrahedra.