CsLiMg₁₄O₁₅ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmm2 space group. Cs¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Cs-O bond distances ranging from 2.64-2.98 Å. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with three MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 9°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.61 Å. There are ten inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, edges with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.13 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with four MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.43 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ square pyramid,  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ trigonal bipyramid, edges with three MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, edges with three MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.32 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ trigonal bipyramid,  an edgeedge with one MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.11-2.31 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a T-shaped geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There is one shorter (1.90 Å) and two longer (1.92 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ square pyramid, edges with four MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with six MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 12°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.22 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with six MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 72°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.19 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with four MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are three shorter (2.07 Å) and two longer (2.09 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with three equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with two MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with five MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.26 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ square pyramid, corners with five MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with three MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.14 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OCsMg₅ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent OCs₂Mg₃ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with eight OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OLi₂Mg₃ square pyramids, edges with two equivalent OLiMg₅ octahedra, edges with four equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 8-19°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Cs¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OCsMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one OMg₅ square pyramid, corners with two equivalent OCs₂Mg₃ trigonal bipyramids, edges with four OMg₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-19°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OMg₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one OMg₅ square pyramid,  a cornercorner with one OMg₅ trigonal bipyramid, edges with three OMg₆ octahedra, edges with three OMg₅ square pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OCs₂Mg₃ trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-20°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OMg₆ octahedra, corners with five OMg₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one OMg₅ trigonal bipyramid, and edges with seven OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and three Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₃ square pyramids that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra, corners with four OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with six OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 6-83°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent OMg₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OLi₂Mg₃ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one OCs₂Mg₃ trigonal bipyramid, edges with eight OCsMg₅ octahedra, and edges with four OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 1°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent OMg₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, corners with four OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 60°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Cs¹⁺ and three Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OCs₂Mg₃ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three OCsMg₅ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, corners with four OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-52°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OLiMg₅ octahedra, edges with six OLiMg₅ octahedra, and edges with five OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-17°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Cs¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms.