LiZn(OCl)₃ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. There are four inequivalent Li sites. In the first Li site, Li is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two O and two Cl atoms. There is one shorter (2.00 Å) and one longer (2.04 Å) Li-O bond length. There is one shorter (2.39 Å) and one longer (2.65 Å) Li-Cl bond length. In the second Li site, Li is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two O and two Cl atoms. There is one shorter (2.02 Å) and one longer (2.05 Å) Li-O bond length. There is one shorter (2.46 Å) and one longer (2.54 Å) Li-Cl bond length. In the third Li site, Li is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three O and one Cl atom. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.23 Å. The Li-Cl bond length is 2.52 Å. In the fourth Li site, Li is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two O and two Cl atoms. There is one shorter (1.90 Å) and one longer (1.99 Å) Li-O bond length. There is one shorter (2.45 Å) and one longer (2.71 Å) Li-Cl bond length. There are four inequivalent Zn sites. In the first Zn site, Zn is bonded to four Cl atoms to form corner-sharing ZnCl₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-Cl bond distances ranging from 2.25-2.37 Å. In the second Zn site, Zn is bonded to four Cl atoms to form corner-sharing ZnCl₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-Cl bond distances ranging from 2.25-2.35 Å. In the third Zn site, Zn is bonded to four Cl atoms to form distorted corner-sharing ZnCl₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-Cl bond distances ranging from 2.23-2.41 Å. In the fourth Zn site, Zn is bonded to four Cl atoms to form corner-sharing ZnCl₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-Cl bond distances ranging from 2.18-2.48 Å. There are twelve inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two O atoms. There is one shorter (1.27 Å) and one longer (1.37 Å) O-O bond length. In the second O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two Li and one O atom. The O-O bond length is 1.39 Å. In the third O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The O-O bond length is 1.23 Å. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two Li and one O atom. The O-O bond length is 1.38 Å. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one O and one Cl atom. The O-Cl bond length is 2.42 Å. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one O and one Cl atom. The O-O bond length is 1.27 Å. The O-Cl bond length is 2.34 Å. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Li and one O atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two O atoms. The O-O bond length is 1.27 Å. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two Li and one Cl atom. The O-Cl bond length is 1.66 Å. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one O atom. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two Li and one O atom. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two O atoms. There are twelve inequivalent Cl sites. In the first Cl site, Cl is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two Zn atoms. In the second Cl site, Cl is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two Zn atoms. In the third Cl site, Cl is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two Zn atoms. In the fourth Cl site, Cl is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one Li and two Zn atoms. In the fifth Cl site, Cl is bonded in an L-shaped geometry to one Li and one Zn atom. In the sixth Cl site, Cl is bonded in a distorted L-shaped geometry to one Zn and one O atom. In the seventh Cl site, Cl is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two Li and one Zn atom. In the eighth Cl site, Cl is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one Zn and one O atom. In the ninth Cl site, Cl is bonded in a distorted L-shaped geometry to one Zn and one O atom. In the tenth Cl site, Cl is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one Zn atom. In the eleventh Cl site, Cl is bonded in a distorted trigonal pyramidal geometry to three Li and one Zn atom. In the twelfth Cl site, Cl is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one Zn atom.