LiAl₂Pb₂H₄(O₂F₃)₂ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Li is bonded to two equivalent Pb, one O, and three F atoms to form distorted LiPb₂OF₃ trigonal pyramids that share corners with four AlO₃F₃ octahedra and corners with two equivalent LiPb₂OF₃ trigonal pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 12-55°. There is one shorter (2.95 Å) and one longer (3.14 Å) Li-Pb bond length. The Li-O bond length is 1.95 Å. There are a spread of Li-F bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.21 Å. There are two inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded to three O and three F atoms to form AlO₃F₃ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiPb₂OF₃ trigonal pyramids and  an edgeedge with one AlO₃F₃ octahedra. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-2.02 Å. There is one shorter (1.82 Å) and two longer (1.83 Å) Al-F bond lengths. In the second Al site, Al is bonded to three O and three F atoms to form AlO₃F₃ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiPb₂OF₃ trigonal pyramids and  an edgeedge with one AlO₃F₃ octahedra. There are two shorter (1.92 Å) and one longer (1.94 Å) Al-O bond length. There are a spread of Al-F bond distances ranging from 1.83-1.87 Å. There are two inequivalent Pb sites. In the first Pb site, Pb is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two O and two F atoms. There is one shorter (2.45 Å) and one longer (2.48 Å) Pb-O bond length. There is one shorter (2.52 Å) and one longer (2.67 Å) Pb-F bond length. In the second Pb site, Pb is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Li, two O, and four F atoms. There is one shorter (2.51 Å) and one longer (2.69 Å) Pb-O bond length. There are a spread of Pb-F bond distances ranging from 2.58-2.81 Å. There are four inequivalent H sites. In the first H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. In the second H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. In the third H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. In the fourth H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.98 Å. There are four inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two Al, one Pb, and one H atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two Al and one H atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Al, one Pb, and one H atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to one Al, two Pb, and one H atom. There are six inequivalent F sites. In the first F site, F is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to one Li, one Al, and one Pb atom. In the second F site, F is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Li, one Al, and one Pb atom. In the third F site, F is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one Al and one Pb atom. In the fourth F site, F is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one Al and one Pb atom. In the fifth F site, F is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Al and one Pb atom. In the sixth F site, F is bonded in a linear geometry to one Li, one Al, and one Pb atom.