Li₂BaSiO₄ crystallizes in the hexagonal P6₃cm space group. There are two inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-2.19 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one SiO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.21 Å. Ba²⁺ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Ba-O bond distances ranging from 2.67-3.25 Å. There are two inequivalent Si⁴⁺ sites. In the first Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with three equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There is one shorter (1.64 Å) and three longer (1.66 Å) Si-O bond lengths. In the second Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with six equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra and edges with three equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are three shorter (1.66 Å) and one longer (1.70 Å) Si-O bond length. There are four inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to six Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two Li¹⁺, three equivalent Ba²⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three equivalent Ba²⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OBa₃Si tetrahedra. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two Li¹⁺, two equivalent Ba²⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom.