LiMg₃₀SiO₃₂ is Molybdenum Carbide MAX Phase-derived structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.14 Å) and four longer (2.19 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are eight inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.34 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.06 Å) and four longer (2.12 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.14 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.07 Å) and two longer (2.32 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-14°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.16 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.12 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.14 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-14°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.14 Å. Si³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (1.87 Å) and two longer (1.89 Å) Si-O bond lengths. There are fifteen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Si³⁺ atom to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₅Si octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-4°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Si³⁺ atom to form distorted OMg₅Si octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. The O-Mg bond length is 2.34 Å. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Si³⁺ atom to form distorted OMg₅Si octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. There are two shorter (2.13 Å) and two longer (2.16 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅Si octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. The O-Mg bond length is 2.14 Å. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅Si octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are two shorter (2.09 Å) and two longer (2.12 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅Si octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. There is one shorter (2.02 Å) and two longer (2.08 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Si³⁺ atom to form distorted OMg₅Si octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.13 Å. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. There are a spread of O-Mg bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.08 Å. In the fourteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. There is one shorter (2.09 Å) and two longer (2.13 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the fifteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅Si octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.09 Å.