KLiMg₆O₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. K¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form KO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent KO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-13°. There are a spread of K-O bond distances ranging from 2.25-2.45 Å. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent KO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (2.06 Å) and four longer (2.26 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent KO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.24 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (1.98 Å) and four longer (2.26 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.25 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent KO₆ octahedra, edges with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 6-19°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.24-2.45 Å. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one K¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OKMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OKMg₅ octahedra and edges with eight OK₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-12°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one K¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OKMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OKMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-19°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 6°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent K¹⁺, two equivalent Li¹⁺, and two Mg²⁺ atoms to form OK₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra that share corners with six OK₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra and edges with ten OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-16°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OK₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra and edges with ten OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-17°.