RbLiMg₃₀O₃₁ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmm2 space group. Rb¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form RbO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are a spread of Rb-O bond distances ranging from 2.37-2.48 Å. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent RbO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with three MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 8-18°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.86-2.32 Å. There are sixteen inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.04-2.25 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent RbO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.23 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 8-9°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.14 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent RbO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-2.25 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.22 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.16 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one RbO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-16°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.21 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two MgO₅ square pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.13-2.18 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with three MgO₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid,  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ trigonal bipyramid,  an edgeedge with one RbO₆ octahedra, and edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 7-21°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.16 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.19 Å. In the eleventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids,  an edgeedge with one RbO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-15°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.33 Å. In the twelfth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.14-2.21 Å. In the thirteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two MgO₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.15 Å. In the fourteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one RbO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.11-2.24 Å. In the fifteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.27 Å. In the sixteenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one RbO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-13°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.15-2.22 Å. There are seventeen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Rb¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing ORbMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six ORbMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four ORbMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5-9°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Rb¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted ORbMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six ORbMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-9°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eleven ORbMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-12°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-4°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Rb¹⁺, one Li¹⁺, and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted ORbLiMg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eleven ORbMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 7-25°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-7°. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eleven ORbMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 4-21°. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the fourteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six ORbMg₅ octahedra and edges with eleven OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-12°. In the fifteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Rb¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing ORbMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-10°. In the sixteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-12°. In the seventeenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°.