Na₂Li₂Al₃Si₃O₁₂Cl crystallizes in the tetragonal P̅4 space group. Na¹⁺ is bonded to three O²⁻ and one Cl¹⁻ atom to form distorted NaClO₃ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one NaClO₃ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiClO₃ tetrahedra, corners with three AlO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with three SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Na-O bond distances ranging from 2.34-2.36 Å. The Na-Cl bond length is 2.73 Å. Li¹⁺ is bonded to three O²⁻ and one Cl¹⁻ atom to form LiClO₃ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiClO₃ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent NaClO₃ tetrahedra, corners with three AlO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with three SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.08 Å. The Li-Cl bond length is 2.64 Å. There are three inequivalent Al³⁺ sites. In the first Al³⁺ site, Al³⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form AlO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent NaClO₃ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiClO₃ tetrahedra, and corners with four SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.73-1.78 Å. In the second Al³⁺ site, Al³⁺ is bonded to four equivalent O²⁻ atoms to form AlO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent LiClO₃ tetrahedra and corners with four equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra. All Al-O bond lengths are 1.76 Å. In the third Al³⁺ site, Al³⁺ is bonded to four equivalent O²⁻ atoms to form AlO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent NaClO₃ tetrahedra and corners with four equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra. All Al-O bond lengths are 1.75 Å. There are three inequivalent Si⁴⁺ sites. In the first Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent NaClO₃ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiClO₃ tetrahedra, and corners with four AlO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.62-1.67 Å. In the second Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four equivalent O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent LiClO₃ tetrahedra and corners with four equivalent AlO₄ tetrahedra. All Si-O bond lengths are 1.65 Å. In the third Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four equivalent O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four equivalent NaClO₃ tetrahedra and corners with four equivalent AlO₄ tetrahedra. All Si-O bond lengths are 1.65 Å. There are six inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Na¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Na¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Na¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom. Cl¹⁻ is bonded in a tetrahedral geometry to two equivalent Na¹⁺ and two equivalent Li¹⁺ atoms.