Li₃Si₂BiO₇ crystallizes in the hexagonal P6₃ space group. There are five inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one BiO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₆ pentagonal pyramid,  a cornercorner with one BiO₆ pentagonal pyramid, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four SiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one BiO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 72°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.46 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one BiO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₆ pentagonal pyramid,  a cornercorner with one BiO₆ pentagonal pyramid, corners with four SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one BiO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 72°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.41 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O²⁻ atoms. There are three shorter (2.57 Å) and three longer (2.60 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the fourth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₆ pentagonal pyramids that share corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and faces with two BiO₆ octahedra. There are three shorter (2.47 Å) and three longer (2.50 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the fifth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three equivalent O²⁻ atoms. All Li-O bond lengths are 2.16 Å. There are two inequivalent Si⁴⁺ sites. In the first Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two BiO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₆ pentagonal pyramid,  a cornercorner with one BiO₆ pentagonal pyramid,  a cornercorner with one SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 47-55°. There are three shorter (1.64 Å) and one longer (1.71 Å) Si-O bond length. In the second Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two BiO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₆ pentagonal pyramid,  a cornercorner with one BiO₆ pentagonal pyramid,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one SiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with three equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 49-56°. There are three shorter (1.64 Å) and one longer (1.70 Å) Si-O bond length. There are three inequivalent Bi³⁺ sites. In the first Bi³⁺ site, Bi³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form BiO₆ octahedra that share corners with six SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, edges with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  a faceface with one LiO₆ pentagonal pyramid. There are three shorter (2.34 Å) and three longer (2.37 Å) Bi-O bond lengths. In the second Bi³⁺ site, Bi³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form BiO₆ octahedra that share corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six SiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with three equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and  a faceface with one LiO₆ pentagonal pyramid. There are three shorter (2.34 Å) and three longer (2.36 Å) Bi-O bond lengths. In the third Bi³⁺ site, Bi³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted BiO₆ pentagonal pyramids that share corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six SiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with three equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are three shorter (2.37 Å) and three longer (2.38 Å) Bi-O bond lengths. There are seven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₂SiBi tetrahedra. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₂SiBi tetrahedra. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two Si⁴⁺ atoms.