LiGaPO₅ crystallizes in the triclinic P̅1 space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to one O¹⁻ and four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent PO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent GaO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one PO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 55-61°. The Li-O bond length is 1.98 Å. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.22 Å. There are two inequivalent Ga³⁺ sites. In the first Ga³⁺ site, Ga³⁺ is bonded to two equivalent O¹⁻ and four O²⁻ atoms to form GaO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and corners with four equivalent PO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 45°. Both Ga-O bond lengths are 1.94 Å. There are two shorter (1.97 Å) and two longer (2.03 Å) Ga-O bond lengths. In the second Ga³⁺ site, Ga³⁺ is bonded to two equivalent O¹⁻ and four O²⁻ atoms to form GaO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent PO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 45°. Both Ga-O bond lengths are 1.96 Å. There are two shorter (1.94 Å) and two longer (2.05 Å) Ga-O bond lengths. P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four GaO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 37-55°. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.53-1.57 Å. O¹⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two Ga³⁺ atoms. There are four inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to one Ga³⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺, one Ga³⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Ga³⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Ga³⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom.