LiBe₄Er₄(SiO₇)₂ crystallizes in the monoclinic Cm space group. Li is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Er and four O atoms. The Li-Er bond length is 2.42 Å. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.70-2.05 Å. There are three inequivalent Be sites. In the first Be site, Be is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted BeO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one BeO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Be-O bond distances ranging from 1.51-1.75 Å. In the second Be site, Be is bonded to four O atoms to form BeO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one BeO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Be-O bond distances ranging from 1.60-1.73 Å. In the third Be site, Be is bonded to four O atoms to form BeO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one BeO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Be-O bond distances ranging from 1.59-1.78 Å. There are three inequivalent Er sites. In the first Er site, Er is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O atoms. There are a spread of Er-O bond distances ranging from 2.20-2.42 Å. In the second Er site, Er is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to one Li and seven O atoms. There are a spread of Er-O bond distances ranging from 2.19-2.71 Å. In the third Er site, Er is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O atoms. There are a spread of Er-O bond distances ranging from 2.25-2.46 Å. Si is bonded to four O atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four BeO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.63-1.67 Å. There are nine inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Be, one Er, and one Si atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Be and two Er atoms. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Be, and two equivalent Er atoms. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one Li, one Be, and two equivalent Er atoms. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Be and three Er atoms. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Be and three Er atoms. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Be, two Er, and one Si atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one Be, one Er, and one Si atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one Be, two Er, and one Si atom.