KLiMg₁₄O₁₅ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmm2 space group. K¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form KO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent KO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of K-O bond distances ranging from 2.21-2.43 Å. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent KO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, corners with three MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 15°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.22 Å. There are ten inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent KO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.28 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 11°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.23 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent KO₆ octahedra, edges with five MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-11°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.22 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.13-2.21 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent KO₆ octahedra, edges with six MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.22 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.12 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent KO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-12°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.18-2.24 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 4-9°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.44 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one KO₆ octahedra, and edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 11-19°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.22 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one KO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 4-16°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.34 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one K¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OKMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OKMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one K¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OKMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OKMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-12°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OKMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 9-11°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with ten OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-13°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent K¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OK₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with ten OKLiMg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-14°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-16°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one K¹⁺, one Li¹⁺, and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OKLiMg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OKLiMg₄ octahedra and edges with eleven OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 8-21°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OKLiMg₄ octahedra and edges with eleven OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5-21°.