LiMg₁₄YO₁₆ is alpha Po-derived structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.16 Å) and four longer (2.22 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent YO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.16 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent YO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.29 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.23 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one YO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-9°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.26 Å. Y³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form YO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent YO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.16 Å) and four longer (2.23 Å) Y-O bond lengths. There are nine inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Y³⁺ atom to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OYMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.16 Å. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are two shorter (2.06 Å) and two longer (2.16 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OYMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5-9°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four equivalent Mg²⁺ and two equivalent Y³⁺ atoms to form OY₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OY₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OYMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OY₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OYMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four equivalent Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. The O-Mg bond length is 2.10 Å. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are a spread of O-Mg bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.16 Å.