LiZnBP₂O₁₁ crystallizes in the hexagonal P6₁ space group. Li is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one ZnO₅ square pyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.26 Å. Zn is bonded to five O atoms to form distorted ZnO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.13 Å. B is bonded to four O atoms to form BO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.47-1.49 Å. There are two inequivalent P sites. In the first P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent ZnO₅ square pyramids and corners with two equivalent BO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.52-1.57 Å. In the second P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent ZnO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent BO₄ tetrahedra, and  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.54-1.57 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one Zn and one P atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in an L-shaped geometry to one Li and one Zn atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to two equivalent Li and one O atom. The O-O bond length is 1.24 Å. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one Zn and one P atom. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one B and one P atom. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one B and one P atom. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one B and one P atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Zn, and one P atom. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one B and one P atom. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to one Zn and one P atom.