LiMg₁₄LaO₁₆ is Caswellsilverite-derived structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.19 Å) and four longer (2.22 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LaO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.19 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.26 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LaO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.35 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LaO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-10°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.30 Å. La³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LaO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LaO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.19 Å) and four longer (2.34 Å) La-O bond lengths. There are ten inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one La³⁺ atom to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.19 Å. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one La³⁺ atom to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are two shorter (2.19 Å) and two longer (2.30 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5-10°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four equivalent Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four equivalent Mg²⁺ and two equivalent La³⁺ atoms to form OLa₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are two shorter (2.06 Å) and two longer (2.19 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one La³⁺ atom to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. The O-Mg bond length is 2.02 Å. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one La³⁺ atom to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are a spread of O-Mg bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.30 Å.