LiZn₄(SnO₂)₄ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Li is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Sn and two equivalent O atoms. The Li-Sn bond length is 2.68 Å. There is one shorter (1.89 Å) and one longer (1.92 Å) Li-O bond length. There are four inequivalent Zn sites. In the first Zn site, Zn is bonded to four O atoms to form corner-sharing ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.04 Å. In the second Zn site, Zn is bonded to four O atoms to form corner-sharing ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.09 Å. In the third Zn site, Zn is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted corner-sharing ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.06 Å. In the fourth Zn site, Zn is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted corner-sharing ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.10 Å. There are four inequivalent Sn sites. In the first Sn site, Sn is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.25 Å. In the second Sn site, Sn is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O atoms. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.17-2.52 Å. In the third Sn site, Sn is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Li and four O atoms. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.44 Å. In the fourth Sn site, Sn is bonded in a distorted water-like geometry to two O atoms. There is one shorter (2.13 Å) and one longer (2.26 Å) Sn-O bond length. There are eight inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a distorted see-saw-like geometry to two equivalent Li, one Zn, and one Sn atom. In the second O site, O is bonded to two equivalent Zn and two Sn atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra. In the third O site, O is bonded to two equivalent Zn and two Sn atoms to form distorted OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent OZn₃Sn tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Zn and two equivalent Sn atoms. In the fifth O site, O is bonded to three Zn and one Sn atom to form corner-sharing OZn₃Sn tetrahedra. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two Zn and two equivalent Sn atoms. In the seventh O site, O is bonded to three Zn and one Sn atom to form OZn₃Sn tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent OZn₃Sn tetrahedra and corners with two equivalent OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two Zn and two equivalent Sn atoms.