RbLiMg₁₄O₁₅ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmm2 space group. Rb¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Rb-O bond distances ranging from 2.44-2.70 Å. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids, corners with three MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.30 Å. There are ten inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with six MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.07 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.17 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one MgO₆ octahedra, corners with seven MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids,  an edgeedge with one MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 71°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.29 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one MgO₆ octahedra, corners with seven MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with three MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 70°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.25 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There is one shorter (1.98 Å) and two longer (2.03 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with three MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 15°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.39 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with eight MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 16°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.34 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three MgO₆ octahedra, corners with six MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-24°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.11 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.63 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, corners with eight MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with three MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with three MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.19 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one ORbMg₅ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with four OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra, edges with four OMg₆ octahedra, and edges with six OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-16°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Rb¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted ORbMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one OMg₅ trigonal bipyramid, edges with four OMg₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-4°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five Mg²⁺ atoms. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three OMg₆ octahedra, corners with five OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with five OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 66-74°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one OMg₅ trigonal bipyramid, edges with two equivalent OLiMg₅ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 3°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Rb¹⁺ and three Mg²⁺ atoms. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra, corners with four OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with six OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-24°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent OMg₆ octahedra, corners with four OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with six ORbMg₅ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 1°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Rb¹⁺, one Li¹⁺, and three Mg²⁺ atoms. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OMg₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with four OLiMg₅ octahedra, and edges with three OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 7-23°.