Li₆Nd₆Sb(TeO₈)₃ crystallizes in the monoclinic C2/c space group. There are four inequivalent Li sites. In the first Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one SbO₆ octahedra and corners with three TeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 49-52°. There are three shorter (1.95 Å) and one longer (1.96 Å) Li-O bond length. In the second Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four TeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 49°. All Li-O bond lengths are 1.95 Å. In the third Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one SbO₆ octahedra and corners with three TeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 49-52°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-1.96 Å. In the fourth Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent SbO₆ octahedra and corners with two equivalent TeO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 50-52°. There are two shorter (1.95 Å) and two longer (1.96 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent Nd sites. In the first Nd site, Nd is bonded in a distorted body-centered cubic geometry to eight O atoms. There are a spread of Nd-O bond distances ranging from 2.44-2.58 Å. In the second Nd site, Nd is bonded in a distorted body-centered cubic geometry to eight O atoms. There are a spread of Nd-O bond distances ranging from 2.41-2.60 Å. In the third Nd site, Nd is bonded in a distorted body-centered cubic geometry to eight O atoms. There are a spread of Nd-O bond distances ranging from 2.40-2.59 Å. In the fourth Nd site, Nd is bonded in a distorted body-centered cubic geometry to eight O atoms. There are a spread of Nd-O bond distances ranging from 2.41-2.59 Å. Sb is bonded to six O atoms to form SbO₆ octahedra that share corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (2.01 Å) and four longer (2.02 Å) Sb-O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent Te sites. In the first Te site, Te is bonded to six O atoms to form TeO₆ octahedra that share corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra. All Te-O bond lengths are 1.96 Å. In the second Te site, Te is bonded to six O atoms to form TeO₆ octahedra that share corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra. All Te-O bond lengths are 1.96 Å. In the third Te site, Te is bonded to six O atoms to form TeO₆ octahedra that share corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra. All Te-O bond lengths are 1.96 Å. There are twelve inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Nd, and one Te atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Nd, and one Te atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Nd, and one Te atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Nd, and one Te atom. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Nd, and one Te atom. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Nd, and one Te atom. In the seventh O site, O is bonded to one Li, two Nd, and one Sb atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLiNd₂Sb tetrahedra. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Nd, and one Te atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Nd, and one Te atom. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Nd, and one Te atom. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded to one Li, two Nd, and one Sb atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLiNd₂Sb tetrahedra. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, two Nd, and one Sb atom.