LiBa₂B₁₀O₁₉ crystallizes in the triclinic P̅1 space group. Li is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four BO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.12 Å. There are two inequivalent Ba sites. In the first Ba site, Ba is bonded in a 10-coordinate geometry to ten O atoms. There are a spread of Ba-O bond distances ranging from 2.65-3.18 Å. In the second Ba site, Ba is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to nine O atoms. There are a spread of Ba-O bond distances ranging from 2.65-3.21 Å. There are ten inequivalent B sites. In the first B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are two shorter (1.36 Å) and one longer (1.42 Å) B-O bond length. In the second B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.37-1.39 Å. In the third B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.36-1.40 Å. In the fourth B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.35-1.40 Å. In the fifth B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.36-1.40 Å. In the sixth B site, B is bonded to four O atoms to form corner-sharing BO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.46-1.51 Å. In the seventh B site, B is bonded to four O atoms to form BO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two BO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.45-1.53 Å. In the eighth B site, B is bonded to four O atoms to form corner-sharing BO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.45-1.53 Å. In the ninth B site, B is bonded to four O atoms to form BO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two BO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.47-1.53 Å. In the tenth B site, B is bonded to four O atoms to form BO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two BO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.46-1.49 Å. There are nineteen inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two equivalent Ba and two B atoms. In the second O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two equivalent Ba and two B atoms. In the third O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li and two B atoms. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li and two B atoms. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to two equivalent Ba and two B atoms. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Ba and two B atoms. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two B atoms. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Ba and two B atoms. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Ba, and two B atoms. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two B atoms. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to two Ba and two B atoms. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Ba and two B atoms. In the thirteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Ba and one B atom. In the fourteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Ba and two B atoms. In the fifteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Ba and two B atoms. In the sixteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to two equivalent Ba and two B atoms. In the seventeenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Ba and two B atoms. In the eighteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Ba and one B atom. In the nineteenth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one Li and one B atom.