LiMg₆BO₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent BO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.16-2.63 Å. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with five MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (2.04 Å) and four longer (2.16 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with five MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent BO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (2.04 Å) and four longer (2.16 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a distorted square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.24 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent BO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-29°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.23 Å. B¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted BO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent BO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.42-2.16 Å. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Li¹⁺, four equivalent Mg²⁺, and one B¹⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Li¹⁺, four equivalent Mg²⁺, and one B¹⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eight OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 2°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with six OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Mg²⁺ and two equivalent B¹⁺ atoms to form OMg₄B₂ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with six OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°.