LiMg₆CeO₈ is alpha Po-derived structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent CeO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.20 Å) and two longer (2.38 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.10 Å) and four longer (2.20 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent CeO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.08 Å) and four longer (2.20 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent CeO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.40 Å. Ce³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form CeO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent CeO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.20 Å) and two longer (2.41 Å) Ce-O bond lengths. There are six inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OCeMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Ce³⁺ atom to form OCeMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OCeMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺, two equivalent Mg²⁺, and two equivalent Ce³⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Ce₂Mg₂ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Ce₂Mg₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Ce₂Mg₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺, two equivalent Mg²⁺, and two equivalent Ce³⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Ce₂Mg₂ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Ce₂Mg₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.40 Å. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Ce₂Mg₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.08 Å.