LiCd₂Al₄O₈ is Aluminum carbonitride-derived structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Imm2 space group. Li is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O atoms. There are two shorter (1.85 Å) and two longer (2.11 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent Cd sites. In the first Cd site, Cd is bonded to four O atoms to form CdO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with six equivalent AlO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 66-68°. There are two shorter (2.21 Å) and two longer (2.23 Å) Cd-O bond lengths. In the second Cd site, Cd is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O atoms. There are two shorter (2.13 Å) and two longer (2.29 Å) Cd-O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O atoms. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.87-1.94 Å. In the second Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form AlO₆ octahedra that share corners with three equivalent CdO₄ tetrahedra and edges with two equivalent AlO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.17 Å. There are four inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded to one Cd and three Al atoms to form OAl₃Cd tetrahedra that share corners with five OAl₃Cd tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OLiAl₃Cd trigonal bipyramids,  an edgeedge with one OAl₃Cd tetrahedra, and edges with two equivalent OLiAl₃Cd trigonal bipyramids. In the second O site, O is bonded to one Li, one Cd, and three Al atoms to form distorted OLiAl₃Cd trigonal bipyramids that share corners with seven OAl₃Cd tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLiAl₃Cd trigonal bipyramid, edges with two equivalent OAl₃Cd tetrahedra, and  a faceface with one OLiAl₃Cd trigonal bipyramid. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Cd, and two equivalent Al atoms. In the fourth O site, O is bonded to one Cd and three Al atoms to form OAl₃Cd tetrahedra that share corners with five OAl₃Cd tetrahedra, corners with five equivalent OLiAl₃Cd trigonal bipyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OAl₃Cd tetrahedra.