CsLiMg₆O₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Cs¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are four shorter (2.81 Å) and one longer (3.46 Å) Cs-O bond length. Li¹⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four equivalent O²⁻ atoms. All Li-O bond lengths are 2.08 Å. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. There are four shorter (2.08 Å) and one longer (2.15 Å) Mg-O bond length. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra and edges with eight MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.37 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.62 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with six MgO₅ square pyramids. There are four shorter (2.08 Å) and one longer (2.14 Å) Mg-O bond length. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent OMg₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent OCsMg₅ square pyramids. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OCsMg₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with four equivalent OMg₆ octahedra. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Cs¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OCsMg₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent OCsMg₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one OMg₅ trigonal bipyramid, edges with four equivalent OMg₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to two equivalent Cs¹⁺, two equivalent Li¹⁺, and one Mg²⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OMg₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent OMg₆ octahedra, edges with four OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5-7°.