LiZn₂Al₄O₈ crystallizes in the monoclinic C2/m space group. Li is bonded to six O atoms to form distorted LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent AlO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent AlO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 4-11°. There are four shorter (2.14 Å) and two longer (2.25 Å) Li-O bond lengths. Zn is bonded to six O atoms to form ZnO₆ octahedra that share edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra, and edges with four AlO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.25 Å. There are three inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O atoms. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.79-1.96 Å. In the second Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form AlO₆ octahedra that share edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent AlO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra. There are two shorter (1.86 Å) and four longer (2.02 Å) Al-O bond lengths. In the third Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form AlO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent AlO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 4-11°. There are two shorter (1.99 Å) and four longer (2.03 Å) Al-O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded to one Li, two equivalent Zn, and two Al atoms to form distorted OLiAl₂Zn₂ square pyramids that share corners with six OLiAl₂Zn₂ square pyramids and edges with six equivalent OLiAl₃Zn square pyramids. In the second O site, O is bonded to one Li, one Zn, and three Al atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiAl₃Zn square pyramids. In the third O site, O is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two equivalent Zn and two Al atoms.