LiMg₆BO₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one BO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. There are four shorter (2.14 Å) and one longer (2.56 Å) Li-O bond length. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.04 Å) and four longer (2.14 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent BO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.14 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.14 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent BO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-27°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.20 Å. B¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted BO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent BO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (1.44 Å) and four longer (2.14 Å) B-O bond lengths. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, four equivalent Mg²⁺, and one B¹⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eight OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eight OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Mg²⁺ and two equivalent B¹⁺ atoms to form OMg₄B₂ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°.