Li₅Ga(GeO₄)₂ is beta beryllia-derived structured and crystallizes in the monoclinic P2₁ space group. There are five inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent GaO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.09 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one GaO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.20 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent GaO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.06 Å. In the fourth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-1.99 Å. In the fifth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent GaO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.06 Å. Ga³⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GaO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Ga-O bond distances ranging from 1.87-1.89 Å. There are two inequivalent Ge⁴⁺ sites. In the first Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent GaO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with four LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.74-1.85 Å. In the second Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent GaO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with four LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.73-1.84 Å. There are eight inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Ga³⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLi₂GaGe trigonal pyramids. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OLi₃Ge trigonal pyramids. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Ga³⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₂GaGe tetrahedra that share corners with eight OLi₂GaGe tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OLi₂GaGe trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃Ge trigonal pyramid. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Ga³⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₂GaGe tetrahedra that share corners with eight OLi₂GaGe tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OLi₃Ge trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂GaGe trigonal pyramid. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₃Ge tetrahedra that share corners with eight OLi₂GaGe tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OLi₃Ge trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂GaGe trigonal pyramid. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₃Ge tetrahedra that share corners with eight OLi₂GaGe tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OLi₂GaGe trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃Ge trigonal pyramid. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Ga³⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form corner-sharing OLi₂GaGe tetrahedra. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form corner-sharing OLi₃Ge tetrahedra.