RbLiMg₁₄O₁₅ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmm2 space group. Rb¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are two shorter (2.31 Å) and two longer (2.50 Å) Rb-O bond lengths. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.39 Å. There are ten inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 15°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.17 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.15 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with five MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-14°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.21 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-9°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.22 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with six MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.29 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a distorted square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.16 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.18 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.25 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ square pyramid, corners with three equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-19°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-2.19 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.24 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OMg₅ square pyramids that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-88°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-21°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra, edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-7°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra, edges with eight OLiMg₅ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-14°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Rb¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form ORb₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight ORbMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-42°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra, edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-19°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Rb¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted ORbMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one OMg₅ square pyramid, and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-38°.