KLi₃PbO₄ is Aluminum carbonitride-derived structured and crystallizes in the triclinic P̅1 space group. K¹⁺ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of K-O bond distances ranging from 2.65-3.01 Å. There are three inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent PbO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one PbO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.10 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent PbO₅ trigonal bipyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one PbO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are two shorter (2.04 Å) and two longer (2.06 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent PbO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with two LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one PbO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.03 Å. Pb⁴⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted PbO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with eight LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with three LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one PbO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Pb-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.35 Å. There are four inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two equivalent K¹⁺, two Li¹⁺, and two equivalent Pb⁴⁺ atoms. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two equivalent K¹⁺, three Li¹⁺, and one Pb⁴⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two equivalent K¹⁺, three Li¹⁺, and one Pb⁴⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Pb⁴⁺ atom.