LiSi₂(BiO₃)₃ crystallizes in the monoclinic P2₁/c space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent BiO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one BiO₇ pentagonal bipyramid, corners with three SiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one BiO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one BiO₇ pentagonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 60°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.74 Å. There are two inequivalent Si⁴⁺ sites. In the first Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with three equivalent BiO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one BiO₇ pentagonal bipyramid,  a cornercorner with one SiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one BiO₇ pentagonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 42-68°. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.64-1.67 Å. In the second Si⁴⁺ site, Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent BiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent BiO₇ pentagonal bipyramids,  a cornercorner with one SiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one BiO₇ pentagonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 39-52°. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.60-1.68 Å. There are three inequivalent Bi³⁺ sites. In the first Bi³⁺ site, Bi³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted BiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with five SiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent BiO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 60°. There are a spread of Bi-O bond distances ranging from 2.14-2.76 Å. In the second Bi³⁺ site, Bi³⁺ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Bi-O bond distances ranging from 2.15-3.01 Å. In the third Bi³⁺ site, Bi³⁺ is bonded to seven O²⁻ atoms to form distorted BiO₇ pentagonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₆ octahedra, corners with three SiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent BiO₆ octahedra, and edges with two SiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 55°. There are a spread of Bi-O bond distances ranging from 2.21-2.80 Å. There are nine inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and one Bi³⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and three Bi³⁺ atoms to form distorted edge-sharing OLiBi₃ tetrahedra. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Si⁴⁺ and three Bi³⁺ atoms. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to one Si⁴⁺ and three Bi³⁺ atoms. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted bent 150 degrees geometry to two Si⁴⁺ and two Bi³⁺ atoms. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and two Bi³⁺ atoms. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and two Bi³⁺ atoms. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Si⁴⁺, and two Bi³⁺ atoms. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Si⁴⁺ and two Bi³⁺ atoms.