LiZn₄SnO₈ is Spinel-derived structured and crystallizes in the hexagonal P6₃mc space group. Li is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra, corners with three equivalent SnO₆ octahedra, and edges with three equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 59-62°. There is one shorter (1.86 Å) and three longer (1.97 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent Zn sites. In the first Zn site, Zn is bonded to six O atoms to form ZnO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SnO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent ZnO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one SnO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 52°. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.13 Å. In the second Zn site, Zn is bonded to four O atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent SnO₆ octahedra and corners with nine equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 58-61°. There are three shorter (1.98 Å) and one longer (2.04 Å) Zn-O bond length. Sn is bonded to six O atoms to form SnO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra, corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent ZnO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with three equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 52°. There are three shorter (2.06 Å) and three longer (2.15 Å) Sn-O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded to four Zn atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OZn₄ trigonal pyramids. In the second O site, O is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one Li, two equivalent Zn, and one Sn atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to three Zn and one Sn atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded to one Li and three equivalent Zn atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OLiZn₃ tetrahedra.