LiBe₄Er₄(SiO₇)₂ crystallizes in the monoclinic Cm space group. Li is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Er and five O atoms. There is one shorter (2.42 Å) and one longer (2.45 Å) Li-Er bond length. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.38 Å. There are three inequivalent Be sites. In the first Be site, Be is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted BeO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one BeO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Be-O bond distances ranging from 1.55-1.73 Å. In the second Be site, Be is bonded to four O atoms to form BeO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one BeO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Be-O bond distances ranging from 1.59-1.70 Å. In the third Be site, Be is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted BeO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one BeO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Be-O bond distances ranging from 1.60-1.75 Å. There are three inequivalent Er sites. In the first Er site, Er is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O atoms. There are a spread of Er-O bond distances ranging from 2.27-2.66 Å. In the second Er site, Er is bonded in a 10-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Li and eight O atoms. There are a spread of Er-O bond distances ranging from 2.36-2.68 Å. In the third Er site, Er is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O atoms. There are a spread of Er-O bond distances ranging from 2.27-2.78 Å. Si is bonded to four O atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four BeO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.64 Å) and two longer (1.65 Å) Si-O bond lengths. There are nine inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Be, two Er, and one Si atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Li, two equivalent Be, and two Er atoms. In the third O site, O is bonded to two Be and two equivalent Er atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OEr₂Be₂ tetrahedra. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to one Be and three Er atoms. In the fifth O site, O is bonded to one Be and three Er atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OEr₃Be tetrahedra. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Be and three Er atoms. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Be, two Er, and one Si atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Be, two Er, and one Si atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Be, two Er, and one Si atom.