Li₃Sr₃La₅O₁₂ crystallizes in the monoclinic Pm space group. There are three inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra and edges with two equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.12 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.06 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, and edges with two equivalent LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.04 Å. There are three inequivalent Sr²⁺ sites. In the first Sr²⁺ site, Sr²⁺ is bonded to seven O²⁻ atoms to form distorted SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids that share edges with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra and faces with two equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Sr-O bond distances ranging from 2.53-2.86 Å. In the second Sr²⁺ site, Sr²⁺ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Sr-O bond distances ranging from 2.54-2.97 Å. In the third Sr²⁺ site, Sr²⁺ is bonded to seven O²⁻ atoms to form distorted SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with four equivalent LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, edges with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, and faces with two equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Sr-O bond distances ranging from 2.51-2.75 Å. There are five inequivalent La³⁺ sites. In the first La³⁺ site, La³⁺ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of La-O bond distances ranging from 2.38-2.68 Å. In the second La³⁺ site, La³⁺ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of La-O bond distances ranging from 2.29-2.78 Å. In the third La³⁺ site, La³⁺ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of La-O bond distances ranging from 2.37-2.63 Å. In the fourth La³⁺ site, La³⁺ is bonded to seven O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids that share corners with four equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, edges with two equivalent SrO₇ pentagonal bipyramids, edges with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, and faces with two equivalent LaO₇ pentagonal bipyramids. There are a spread of La-O bond distances ranging from 2.49-2.62 Å. In the fifth La³⁺ site, La³⁺ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to seven O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of La-O bond distances ranging from 2.36-2.75 Å. There are twelve inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Sr²⁺ and three La³⁺ atoms. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Sr²⁺ and three La³⁺ atoms to form distorted OSrLa₃ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent OSrLa₃ tetrahedra and edges with two equivalent OSr₄LiLa octahedra. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, four Sr²⁺, and one La³⁺ atom to form distorted OSr₄LiLa octahedra that share edges with two equivalent OSr₄LiLa octahedra and edges with two equivalent OSrLa₃ tetrahedra. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Sr²⁺ and one La³⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺, one Sr²⁺, and three La³⁺ atoms. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, two equivalent Sr²⁺, and three La³⁺ atoms. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, two equivalent Sr²⁺, and three La³⁺ atoms. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four La³⁺ atoms. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺, two equivalent Sr²⁺, and three La³⁺ atoms to form distorted edge-sharing OSr₂LiLa₃ octahedra. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, two equivalent Sr²⁺, and three La³⁺ atoms. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺, one Sr²⁺, and three La³⁺ atoms. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Li¹⁺ and five La³⁺ atoms.