LiMg₆BO₈ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent BO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.10 Å) and two longer (2.16 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.01 Å) and four longer (2.10 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent BO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.10 Å) and two longer (2.63 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent BO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-20°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.26 Å. B³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form BO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent BO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (1.54 Å) and four longer (2.10 Å) B-O bond lengths. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with eight OLi₂Mg₂B₂ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-14°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to five Mg²⁺ and one B³⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺, two equivalent Mg²⁺, and two equivalent B³⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₂B₂ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₂B₂ octahedra and edges with eight OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₂B₂ octahedra and edges with eight OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺, two equivalent Mg²⁺, and two equivalent B³⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₂B₂ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eight OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 1.91 Å.