LiMg₃₀BO₃₂ is Molybdenum Carbide MAX Phase-derived structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. Li is bonded to six O atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.17 Å) and four longer (2.21 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are eight inequivalent Mg sites. In the first Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent BO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.48 Å. In the second Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.09 Å) and four longer (2.13 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.17 Å. In the fourth Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent BO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.10 Å) and four longer (2.11 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the fifth Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one BO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-20°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.11-2.15 Å. In the sixth Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.11-2.14 Å. In the seventh Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.16 Å. In the eighth Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one BO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-18°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.16 Å. B is bonded to six O atoms to form distorted BO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (1.75 Å) and two longer (2.16 Å) B-O bond lengths. There are thirteen inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded to one Li and five Mg atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the second O site, O is bonded to six Mg atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the third O site, O is bonded to five Mg and one B atom to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₅B octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the fourth O site, O is bonded to six Mg atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-2°. In the fifth O site, O is bonded to one Li and five Mg atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-13°. In the sixth O site, O is bonded to five Mg and one B atom to form distorted OMg₅B octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-13°. The O-Mg bond length is 2.48 Å. In the seventh O site, O is bonded to five Mg and one B atom to form distorted OMg₅B octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-13°. There are two shorter (2.15 Å) and two longer (2.16 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the eighth O site, O is bonded to six Mg atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the ninth O site, O is bonded to six Mg atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅B octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the tenth O site, O is bonded to six Mg atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅B octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are two shorter (2.12 Å) and two longer (2.13 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded to one Li and five Mg atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅B octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-13°. There is one shorter (2.01 Å) and two longer (2.11 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded to five Mg and one B atom to form distorted OMg₅B octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-13°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.16 Å. In the thirteenth O site, O is bonded to one Li and five Mg atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-13°. There is one shorter (2.01 Å) and four longer (2.11 Å) O-Mg bond lengths.