CsLiMg₆O₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Cs¹⁺ is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to four equivalent Mg²⁺ and five O²⁻ atoms. All Cs-Mg bond lengths are 2.65 Å. There are four shorter (2.40 Å) and one longer (2.95 Å) Cs-O bond length. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.13-2.32 Å. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.28 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (1.89 Å) and four longer (2.30 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a distorted square co-planar geometry to two equivalent Cs¹⁺ and four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.28 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with six MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 10-13°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.42 Å. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with eight OCs₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra, edges with eight OCs₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent OCsMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-13°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Cs¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OCsMg₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent OCsMg₅ square pyramids and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Cs¹⁺, two equivalent Li¹⁺, and two Mg²⁺ atoms to form OCs₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra that share corners with six OCs₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra, edges with eight OLiMg₅ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OCsMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-38°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OCs₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra, edges with eight OLiMg₅ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OCsMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-17°.