LiZn₄(SnO₂)₄ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Li is bonded in a linear geometry to two O atoms. Both Li-O bond lengths are 1.84 Å. There are four inequivalent Zn sites. In the first Zn site, Zn is bonded to five O atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing ZnO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.39 Å. In the second Zn site, Zn is bonded to five O atoms to form a mixture of distorted edge and corner-sharing ZnO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.40 Å. In the third Zn site, Zn is bonded in a distorted see-saw-like geometry to four O atoms. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.10 Å. In the fourth Zn site, Zn is bonded in a distorted see-saw-like geometry to four O atoms. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.10 Å. There are four inequivalent Sn sites. In the first Sn site, Sn is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to three O atoms. There are two shorter (2.15 Å) and one longer (2.24 Å) Sn-O bond length. In the second Sn site, Sn is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three O atoms. There is one shorter (2.15 Å) and two longer (2.22 Å) Sn-O bond lengths. In the third Sn site, Sn is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.15-2.23 Å. In the fourth Sn site, Sn is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to three O atoms. There are two shorter (2.15 Å) and one longer (2.24 Å) Sn-O bond length. There are eight inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded to two Zn and two equivalent Sn atoms to form OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with four OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids, edges with two equivalent OZn₃Sn tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramid. In the second O site, O is bonded to one Li, two equivalent Zn, and one Sn atom to form distorted OLiZn₂Sn tetrahedra that share corners with five OLiZn₂Sn tetrahedra and edges with two equivalent OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra. In the third O site, O is bonded to one Li, two equivalent Zn, and one Sn atom to form distorted OLiZn₂Sn tetrahedra that share corners with five OLiZn₂Sn tetrahedra and edges with two equivalent OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra. In the fourth O site, O is bonded to two Zn and two equivalent Sn atoms to form OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with four OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids, edges with two equivalent OZn₃Sn tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramid. In the fifth O site, O is bonded to three Zn and one Sn atom to form OZn₃Sn tetrahedra that share corners with seven OLiZn₂Sn tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids. In the sixth O site, O is bonded to two Zn and two equivalent Sn atoms to form distorted OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra that share corners with five OZn₃Sn tetrahedra, corners with two OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent OLiZn₂Sn tetrahedra. In the seventh O site, O is bonded to three Zn and one Sn atom to form OZn₃Sn tetrahedra that share corners with seven OLiZn₂Sn tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids. In the eighth O site, O is bonded to two Zn and two equivalent Sn atoms to form distorted OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra that share corners with five OZn₃Sn tetrahedra, corners with two OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent OLiZn₂Sn tetrahedra.