LiMg₁₄SiO₁₆ is alpha Po-derived structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmmm space group. Li is bonded to six O atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.13-2.33 Å. There are nine inequivalent Mg sites. In the first Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.16 Å. In the second Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.20 Å. In the third Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-15°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.20 Å. In the fourth Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.14 Å. In the fifth Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.14 Å. In the sixth Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.18 Å. In the seventh Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.11-2.13 Å. In the eighth Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.11-2.13 Å. In the ninth Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-14°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.18 Å. Si is bonded to six O atoms to form SiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.13 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded to one Li and five Mg atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the second O site, O is bonded to five Mg and one Si atom to form OMg₅Si octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the third O site, O is bonded to one Li and five Mg atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. There are two shorter (2.07 Å) and two longer (2.13 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the fourth O site, O is bonded to six Mg atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-5°. In the fifth O site, O is bonded to two equivalent Li and four Mg atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the sixth O site, O is bonded to four Mg and two equivalent Si atoms to form OMg₄Si₂ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Si octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the seventh O site, O is bonded to six Mg atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the eighth O site, O is bonded to six Mg atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₄Si₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Si octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the ninth O site, O is bonded to one Li, four Mg, and one Si atom to form OLiMg₄Si octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₄Si octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-15°. In the tenth O site, O is bonded to six Mg atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₄Si octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-9°. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded to six Mg atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₄Si octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-9°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.14 Å.