Na₂Li₃GaO₄ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pnnm space group. There are two inequivalent Na¹⁺ sites. In the first Na¹⁺ site, Na¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted NaO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent NaO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent GaO₄ tetrahedra, corners with eight LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with four equivalent NaO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one GaO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with five LiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 19°. There are a spread of Na-O bond distances ranging from 2.45-2.72 Å. In the second Na¹⁺ site, Na¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted NaO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent GaO₄ tetrahedra, corners with ten LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with six NaO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent GaO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with four LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Na-O bond distances ranging from 2.44-2.59 Å. There are two inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with six NaO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent GaO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with three NaO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one GaO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two LiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 27-55°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.07 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with six NaO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent GaO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with three NaO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one GaO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 28-80°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.11 Å. Ga³⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GaO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with six NaO₆ octahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with three NaO₆ octahedra, and edges with three LiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 23-82°. There are a spread of Ga-O bond distances ranging from 1.87-1.91 Å. There are three inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to three Na¹⁺, three Li¹⁺, and one Ga³⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to three Na¹⁺, three Li¹⁺, and one Ga³⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to three Na¹⁺, three Li¹⁺, and one Ga³⁺ atom.