Li₁₀Ge(PO₆)₂ is Aluminum carbonitride-derived structured and crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. There are twenty inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.58 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.18 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.57 Å. In the fourth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.57 Å. In the fifth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one GeO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-1.97 Å. In the sixth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent GeO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid,  an edgeedge with one PO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with three LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.46 Å. In the seventh Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.88-2.01 Å. In the eighth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.48 Å. In the ninth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one GeO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.87-2.10 Å. In the tenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.51 Å. In the eleventh Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.15 Å. In the twelfth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one GeO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.07 Å. In the thirteenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.24 Å. In the fourteenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.18 Å. In the fifteenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one GeO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.86-2.11 Å. In the sixteenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.09 Å. In the seventeenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra, and  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.17 Å. In the eighteenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one GeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.12 Å. In the nineteenth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.17 Å. In the twentieth Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one GeO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one PO₄ tetrahedra, corners with five LiO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.88-2.02 Å. There are two inequivalent Ge⁴⁺ sites. In the first Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with five LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.76-1.82 Å. In the second Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.76-1.80 Å. There are four inequivalent P⁵⁺ sites. In the first P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.55 Å) and two longer (1.56 Å) P-O bond lengths. In the second P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.54-1.57 Å. In the third P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with five LiO₄ tetrahedra and edges with two LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.56-1.58 Å. In the fourth P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.56-1.58 Å. There are twenty-four inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form OLi₃P tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one OLi₃Ge tetrahedra, corners with four OLi₄Ge trigonal bipyramids, and  a cornercorner with one OLi₃P trigonal pyramid. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₄Ge trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three OLi₃P tetrahedra and corners with two OLi₄Ge trigonal bipyramids. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃P trigonal pyramids that share corners with two OLi₃Ge tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₄P trigonal bipyramid,  a cornercorner with one OLi₃Ge trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃P tetrahedra. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₄P trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent OLi₃P tetrahedra, corners with two OLi₃P trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one OLi₃Ge tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₄Ge trigonal bipyramid. In the fourteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the fifteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₄Ge trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OLi₃P tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₄Ge trigonal bipyramid, and  a cornercorner with one OLi₃Ge trigonal pyramid. In the sixteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the seventeenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom to form OLi₃P tetrahedra that share corners with two OLi₄Ge trigonal bipyramids,  a cornercorner with one OLi₃Ge trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₃P trigonal pyramid. In the eighteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the nineteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₃Ge tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one OLi₃P tetrahedra, corners with three OLi₄Ge trigonal bipyramids,  a cornercorner with one OLi₃P trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₄P trigonal bipyramid. In the twentieth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form OLi₄Ge trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three OLi₃Ge tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLi₄Ge trigonal bipyramid, and  an edgeedge with one OLi₄P trigonal bipyramid. In the twenty-first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to five Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the twenty-second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Ge⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₃Ge trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OLi₃P tetrahedra, corners with two OLi₄P trigonal bipyramids, and  a cornercorner with one OLi₃P trigonal pyramid. In the twenty-third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to five Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the twenty-fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom.