LiZn₄(SnO₂)₄ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Li is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.25 Å. There are four inequivalent Zn sites. In the first Zn site, Zn is bonded to four O atoms to form corner-sharing ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.05 Å. In the second Zn site, Zn is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O atoms. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.08 Å. In the third Zn site, Zn is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted corner-sharing ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are three shorter (2.02 Å) and one longer (2.04 Å) Zn-O bond length. In the fourth Zn site, Zn is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted corner-sharing ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.07 Å. There are four inequivalent Sn sites. In the first Sn site, Sn is bonded in a water-like geometry to two equivalent O atoms. There is one shorter (2.22 Å) and one longer (2.23 Å) Sn-O bond length. In the second Sn site, Sn is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O atoms. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.15-2.47 Å. In the third Sn site, Sn is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to four O atoms. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.17-2.34 Å. In the fourth Sn site, Sn is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to three O atoms. There are two shorter (2.14 Å) and one longer (2.26 Å) Sn-O bond length. There are eight inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded to one Li, one Zn, and two equivalent Sn atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OLiZnSn₂ tetrahedra. In the second O site, O is bonded to two equivalent Zn and two Sn atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra. In the third O site, O is bonded to two equivalent Zn and two Sn atoms to form a mixture of distorted corner and edge-sharing OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra. In the fourth O site, O is bonded to one Li, one Zn, and two equivalent Sn atoms to form corner-sharing OLiZnSn₂ tetrahedra. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Li and three Zn atoms. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two Zn and two equivalent Sn atoms. In the seventh O site, O is bonded to three Zn and one Sn atom to form corner-sharing OZn₃Sn tetrahedra. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two Zn and two equivalent Sn atoms.