LiMg₃₀GaO₃₂ is alpha Po-derived structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.17 Å) and four longer (2.20 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are eight inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.21 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.08 Å) and four longer (2.14 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.11-2.14 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent GaO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.11 Å) and two longer (2.18 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one GaO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-7°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.17 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.11-2.14 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.16 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one GaO₆ octahedra, and edges with eleven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.15 Å. Ga³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form GaO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.04 Å) and two longer (2.06 Å) Ga-O bond lengths. There are fifteen inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Ga³⁺ atom to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₅Ga octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-2°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-4°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Ga³⁺ atom to form OMg₅Ga octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. The O-Mg bond length is 2.21 Å. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Ga³⁺ atom to form OMg₅Ga octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. There are two shorter (2.14 Å) and two longer (2.17 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅Ga octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. The O-Mg bond length is 2.14 Å. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅Ga octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are two shorter (2.12 Å) and two longer (2.14 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅Ga octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. There is one shorter (2.05 Å) and two longer (2.11 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the twelfth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one Ga³⁺ atom to form OMg₅Ga octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.14 Å. In the thirteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. There are a spread of O-Mg bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.11 Å. In the fourteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There is one shorter (2.11 Å) and two longer (2.15 Å) O-Mg bond lengths. In the fifteenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₅Ga octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.12 Å.