KLiMg₆O₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. K¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form KO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent KO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. There are four shorter (2.29 Å) and one longer (2.35 Å) K-O bond length. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one KO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (1.80 Å) and four longer (2.31 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent KO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.04-2.29 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.29 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.29 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent KO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.14-2.29 Å. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one K¹⁺, one Li¹⁺, and four equivalent Mg²⁺ atoms to form OKLiMg₄ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OKLiMg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 4°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eight OK₂Mg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OKLiMg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent K¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OK₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OK₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with ten OKLiMg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OK₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with ten OKLiMg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-13°.