LiMg₁₄BO₁₅ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmm2 space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.13-2.27 Å. There are ten inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.28 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There is one shorter (2.02 Å) and two longer (2.14 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.18 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with five MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-28°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.23 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.17 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with six MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-12°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.28 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-12°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.17 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.15 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with three equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-32°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.34 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 6-15°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.04-2.26 Å. B¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.49-2.18 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₅ square pyramids that share corners with three OMg₅B octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-84°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 12-13°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one B¹⁺ atom to form distorted OMg₅B octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one OMg₅ square pyramid, and edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 8-13°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra, edges with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-7°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra, edges with ten OMg₅B octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with six OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Mg²⁺ and two equivalent B¹⁺ atoms to form OMg₄B₂ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with six OMg₅B octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-21°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OLiMg₅ octahedra, edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-5°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to four Mg²⁺ and one B¹⁺ atom.