Li₃Ga(BO₃)₂ is Clathrate-derived structured and crystallizes in the triclinic P̅1 space group. There are three inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one GaO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.09 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent GaO₄ tetrahedra and corners with three LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.07 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ trigonal pyramids,  an edgeedge with one GaO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.31 Å. Ga³⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GaO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are three shorter (1.85 Å) and one longer (1.92 Å) Ga-O bond length. There are two inequivalent B³⁺ sites. In the first B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.35-1.42 Å. In the second B³⁺ site, B³⁺ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.35-1.41 Å. There are six inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to three Li¹⁺ and one B³⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Ga³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₂GaB trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent OLi₃B trigonal pyramids and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂GaB tetrahedra. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Ga³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one B³⁺ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₃B trigonal pyramids. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Ga³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₂GaB tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent OLi₃B trigonal pyramids and  an edgeedge with one OLi₂GaB trigonal pyramid. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Ga³⁺, and one B³⁺ atom.