RbLi₃S₂O₉ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Rb is bonded in a 8-coordinate geometry to eight O atoms. There are a spread of Rb-O bond distances ranging from 2.97-3.38 Å. There are three inequivalent Li sites. In the first Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four SO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.01 Å. In the second Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with three SO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.04 Å. In the third Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four SO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-1.99 Å. There are two inequivalent S sites. In the first S site, S is bonded to four O atoms to form SO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of S-O bond distances ranging from 1.48-1.50 Å. In the second S site, S is bonded to four O atoms to form SO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with five LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are three shorter (1.49 Å) and one longer (1.50 Å) S-O bond length. There are nine inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to two Li and one S atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to two Li and one S atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to two equivalent Rb, one Li, and one S atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Li and one S atom. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Rb, one Li, and one S atom. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one Rb, one Li, and one S atom. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to two Li and one S atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Rb, one Li, and one S atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to two equivalent Rb and one Li atom.