LiSnPO₄ crystallizes in the trigonal P31c space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent SnO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.13 Å. Sn²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted SnO₅ square pyramids that share corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with five PO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with two equivalent SnO₅ square pyramids. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.23-2.69 Å. There are three inequivalent P⁵⁺ sites. In the first P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent SnO₅ square pyramids and corners with six equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra. There is one shorter (1.55 Å) and three longer (1.57 Å) P-O bond lengths. In the second P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with six equivalent SnO₅ square pyramids and corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra. There is one shorter (1.55 Å) and three longer (1.57 Å) P-O bond lengths. In the third P⁵⁺ site, P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with six equivalent SnO₅ square pyramids and corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra. There is one shorter (1.54 Å) and three longer (1.57 Å) P-O bond lengths. There are six inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Sn²⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Sn²⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Sn²⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to three equivalent Sn²⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal pyramidal geometry to three equivalent Li¹⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to three equivalent Sn²⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom.