Li₃Nd₂(N₃O₁₀)₃ crystallizes in the cubic P2_13 space group. Li is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two NdO₁₂ cuboctahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.04-2.14 Å. There are two inequivalent Nd sites. In the first Nd site, Nd is bonded to twelve O atoms to form NdO₁₂ cuboctahedra that share corners with three equivalent NdO₁₂ cuboctahedra and corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Nd-O bond distances ranging from 2.63-2.65 Å. In the second Nd site, Nd is bonded to twelve O atoms to form distorted NdO₁₂ cuboctahedra that share corners with three equivalent NdO₁₂ cuboctahedra and corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Nd-O bond distances ranging from 2.56-2.73 Å. There are three inequivalent N sites. In the first N site, N is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are two shorter (1.25 Å) and one longer (1.30 Å) N-O bond length. In the second N site, N is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of N-O bond distances ranging from 1.25-1.29 Å. In the third N site, N is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of N-O bond distances ranging from 1.23-1.31 Å. There are ten inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Nd and one N atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one N atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one Li and one N atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one Li atom. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Nd and one N atom. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a distorted water-like geometry to one Li, one Nd, and one N atom. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one Nd and one N atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Nd and one N atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a distorted water-like geometry to one Li, one Nd, and one N atom. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to two Nd and one N atom.