LiBaAl₃P₂(HO₇)₂ crystallizes in the monoclinic Cm space group. Li is bonded in a 9-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Al, one P, and six O atoms. Both Li-Al bond lengths are 2.16 Å. The Li-P bond length is 2.00 Å. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.76-2.06 Å. Ba is bonded in a 10-coordinate geometry to ten O atoms. There are a spread of Ba-O bond distances ranging from 2.69-3.12 Å. There are two inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded to six O atoms to form distorted AlO₆ octahedra that share corners with two PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.85-1.94 Å. In the second Al site, Al is bonded in a 7-coordinate geometry to one Li and six O atoms. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.82-2.19 Å. There are two inequivalent P sites. In the first P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one AlO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 44°. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.49-1.59 Å. In the second P site, P is bonded to one Li and four O atoms to form distorted PLiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one AlO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 38°. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.48-1.62 Å. There are two inequivalent H sites. In the first H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 1.00 Å. In the second H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 1.00 Å. There are ten inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one P atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one P atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 2-coordinate geometry to one Ba, one Al, and one P atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Ba, one Al, and one P atom. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one Ba, one Al, and one P atom. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Ba, one Al, and one P atom. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to two equivalent Al and one H atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li, two equivalent Al, and one H atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Li, one Ba, two Al, and one O atom. The O-O bond length is 1.59 Å. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Ba, two Al, and one O atom. The O-O bond length is 1.55 Å.