Li₃Zn₂SbO₆ is alpha Po-derived structured and crystallizes in the monoclinic C2/m space group. There are two inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SbO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent SbO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra, and edges with six LiO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-8°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.18-2.25 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SbO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent SbO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra, and edges with six equivalent LiO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-7°. There are four shorter (2.15 Å) and two longer (2.33 Å) Li-O bond lengths. Zn²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₆ octahedra that share corners with six LiO₆ octahedra, edges with three equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra, edges with three equivalent SbO₆ octahedra, and edges with six LiO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 7-8°. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 2.14-2.18 Å. Sb⁵⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form SbO₆ octahedra that share corners with six LiO₆ octahedra, edges with six LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with six equivalent ZnO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 1°. There are two shorter (2.02 Å) and four longer (2.03 Å) Sb-O bond lengths. There are two inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺, two equivalent Zn²⁺, and one Sb⁵⁺ atom to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLi₃Zn₂Sb octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺, two equivalent Zn²⁺, and one Sb⁵⁺ atom to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing OLi₃Zn₂Sb octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°.