LiMg₁₄BO₁₅ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmm2 space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to three O²⁻ atoms. There is one shorter (2.03 Å) and two longer (2.14 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are ten inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.17 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.31 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with five MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-31°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.01-2.22 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.08-2.18 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.26 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with six MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-15°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.35 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.20 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of corner and edge-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.04-2.14 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-33°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.26 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-9°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.04-2.22 Å. B¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.49-2.18 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₅ square pyramids that share corners with three OMg₄B₂ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-82°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-6°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one B¹⁺ atom to form distorted OMg₅B octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one OMg₅ square pyramid, and edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 6-8°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra, edges with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-5°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₄B₂ octahedra and edges with six OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Mg²⁺ and two equivalent B¹⁺ atoms to form OMg₄B₂ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₄B₂ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with six OMg₅B octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-21°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₄B₂ octahedra, edges with ten OMg₅B octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to four Mg²⁺ and one B¹⁺ atom. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OMg₆ octahedra, edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-4°.