LiScGe₂O₆ crystallizes in the monoclinic P2₁/c space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with six GeO₄ tetrahedra, edges with three equivalent ScO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one GeO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.62 Å. Sc³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form ScO₆ octahedra that share corners with six GeO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent ScO₆ octahedra, and edges with three equivalent LiO₆ octahedra. There are a spread of Sc-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.25 Å. There are two inequivalent Ge⁴⁺ sites. In the first Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with three equivalent ScO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent GeO₄ tetrahedra, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 31-62°. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.73-1.79 Å. In the second Ge⁴⁺ site, Ge⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form GeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent ScO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and corners with two equivalent GeO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 49-74°. There are a spread of Ge-O bond distances ranging from 1.74-1.80 Å. There are six inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one Li¹⁺, two equivalent Sc³⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two equivalent Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a T-shaped geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Sc³⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to one Li¹⁺, two equivalent Sc³⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺ and two equivalent Ge⁴⁺ atoms. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Sc³⁺, and one Ge⁴⁺ atom.