NaLiMg₆O₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Na¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form NaO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent NaO₅ square pyramids, and edges with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra. There are four shorter (2.16 Å) and one longer (2.20 Å) Na-O bond length. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent NaO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.11-2.40 Å. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-12°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.16 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one NaO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (1.93 Å) and four longer (2.19 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.16 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to six O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.68 Å. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with eight ONa₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-9°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve ONaMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-20°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Na¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form ONaMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent ONaMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 18°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Na¹⁺, two equivalent Li¹⁺, and two Mg²⁺ atoms to form ONa₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra that share corners with six ONa₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-10°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six ONa₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-22°.