KLiZn₃O₄ crystallizes in the monoclinic Cm space group. K¹⁺ is bonded in a body-centered cubic geometry to eight O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of K-O bond distances ranging from 2.89-2.99 Å. Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six ZnO₄ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.21 Å. There are three inequivalent Zn²⁺ sites. In the first Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with six ZnO₄ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.01 Å. In the second Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent ZnO₄ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent ZnO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.26 Å. In the third Zn²⁺ site, Zn²⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form ZnO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with three equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent ZnO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent ZnO₄ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent ZnO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.92-2.12 Å. There are four inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two equivalent K¹⁺, one Li¹⁺, and three Zn²⁺ atoms. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two equivalent K¹⁺ and four Zn²⁺ atoms. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two equivalent K¹⁺, one Li¹⁺, and three Zn²⁺ atoms. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent K¹⁺, two equivalent Li¹⁺, and two Zn²⁺ atoms.