LiMg₁₄BO₁₆ is Caswellsilverite-derived structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmmm space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded in a distorted square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are two shorter (2.10 Å) and two longer (2.13 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are eight inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.20 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.13 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-32°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.22 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.20 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.23 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.17 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.23 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-32°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.28 Å. B³⁺ is bonded in a distorted linear geometry to six O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.42-2.25 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ and one B³⁺ atom to form OMg₅B octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-6°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.11 Å. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with eight OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to four Mg²⁺ and two equivalent B³⁺ atoms to form OMg₄B₂ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with eight OMg₅B octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₄B₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅B octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to four Mg²⁺ and one B³⁺ atom. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. There are two shorter (2.12 Å) and two longer (2.13 Å) O-Mg bond lengths.