LiAl₂Pb₂H₄(O₂F₃)₂ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Li is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to three F atoms. There are a spread of Li-F bond distances ranging from 1.83-1.96 Å. There are two inequivalent Al sites. In the first Al site, Al is bonded to three O and three F atoms to form edge-sharing AlO₃F₃ octahedra. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-1.92 Å. There are a spread of Al-F bond distances ranging from 1.83-1.86 Å. In the second Al site, Al is bonded to three O and three F atoms to form edge-sharing AlO₃F₃ octahedra. There is one shorter (1.92 Å) and two longer (1.93 Å) Al-O bond lengths. There are a spread of Al-F bond distances ranging from 1.82-1.84 Å. There are two inequivalent Pb sites. In the first Pb site, Pb is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two O and two F atoms. There is one shorter (2.36 Å) and one longer (2.64 Å) Pb-O bond length. There is one shorter (2.63 Å) and one longer (2.65 Å) Pb-F bond length. In the second Pb site, Pb is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to three O and two F atoms. There are a spread of Pb-O bond distances ranging from 2.37-2.71 Å. There is one shorter (2.59 Å) and one longer (2.78 Å) Pb-F bond length. There are four inequivalent H sites. In the first H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. In the second H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. In the third H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. In the fourth H site, H is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one O and one F atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. The H-F bond length is 1.63 Å. There are four inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two Al, one Pb, and one H atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two Al and one H atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to one Al, two Pb, and one H atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to one Al, two Pb, and one H atom. There are six inequivalent F sites. In the first F site, F is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to one Li, one Al, and one Pb atom. In the second F site, F is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Al, one Pb, and one H atom. In the third F site, F is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Al and one Pb atom. In the fourth F site, F is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one Al and one Pb atom. In the fifth F site, F is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one Li and one Al atom. In the sixth F site, F is bonded in a bent 150 degrees geometry to one Li and one Al atom.