RbLiMg₆O₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Rb¹⁺ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O²⁻ atoms. There are four shorter (2.68 Å) and one longer (3.23 Å) Rb-O bond length. Li¹⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four equivalent O²⁻ atoms. All Li-O bond lengths are 2.08 Å. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. There are four shorter (2.07 Å) and one longer (2.13 Å) Mg-O bond length. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra and edges with eight MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 9°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.46 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.69 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with six MgO₅ square pyramids. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.07-2.13 Å. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₅ square pyramids that share corners with four equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids and edges with eight ORbMg₅ octahedra. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids that share  a cornercorner with one ORbMg₅ octahedra, corners with eight OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with four equivalent OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Rb¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted ORbMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent ORbMg₅ octahedra, corners with five OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with four equivalent OMg₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 9°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Rb¹⁺, two equivalent Li¹⁺, and one Mg²⁺ atom to form distorted ORb₂Li₂Mg trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three ORbMg₅ octahedra, corners with six OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with four equivalent ORb₂Li₂Mg trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-51°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OMg₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one ORb₂Li₂Mg trigonal bipyramid, edges with six ORbMg₅ octahedra, edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5-9°.