Cs₂Li₁₄Tb₃O₁₄ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Immm space group. Cs¹⁺ is bonded in a 10-coordinate geometry to ten O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Cs-O bond distances ranging from 3.21-3.59 Å. There are three inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one TbO₆ octahedra, corners with seven LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two TbO₆ octahedra, and edges with three LiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 66°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.18 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four TbO₆ octahedra, corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with five LiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 23-40°. There are two shorter (1.98 Å) and two longer (2.00 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three TbO₆ octahedra, corners with five LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one TbO₆ octahedra, and edges with three LiO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 5-42°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.13 Å. There are two inequivalent Tb⁴⁺ sites. In the first Tb⁴⁺ site, Tb⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form TbO₆ octahedra that share corners with eight LiO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent TbO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (2.23 Å) and four longer (2.30 Å) Tb-O bond lengths. In the second Tb⁴⁺ site, Tb⁴⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form TbO₆ octahedra that share corners with ten LiO₄ tetrahedra,  an edgeedge with one TbO₆ octahedra, and edges with six LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Tb-O bond distances ranging from 2.26-2.36 Å. There are four inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Cs¹⁺, three Li¹⁺, and two Tb⁴⁺ atoms to form distorted OCs₂Li₃Tb₂ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OCs₂Li₃Tb₂ square pyramid, edges with two equivalent OLi₆Tb hexagonal pyramids, edges with three equivalent OCs₂Li₃Tb₂ square pyramids, and  a faceface with one OCs₂Li₃Tb₂ square pyramid. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Cs¹⁺, four Li¹⁺, and one Tb⁴⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to one Cs¹⁺, four Li¹⁺, and one Tb⁴⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Li¹⁺ and one Tb⁴⁺ atom to form distorted OLi₆Tb hexagonal pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one OLi₆Tb hexagonal pyramid,  an edgeedge with one OLi₆Tb hexagonal pyramid, and edges with four equivalent OCs₂Li₃Tb₂ square pyramids.