LiB₃H₃SeO₉ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pbcn space group. There are two inequivalent Li sites. In the first Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent SeO₄ tetrahedra and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are two shorter (1.98 Å) and two longer (2.03 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the second Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ trigonal pyramids that share corners with two equivalent SeO₄ tetrahedra and  an edgeedge with one LiO₄ trigonal pyramid. There are two shorter (2.01 Å) and two longer (2.09 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent B sites. In the first B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.37-1.40 Å. In the second B site, B is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to three O atoms. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.37-1.40 Å. In the third B site, B is bonded to four O atoms to form BO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent SeO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of B-O bond distances ranging from 1.45-1.53 Å. There are three inequivalent H sites. In the first H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 0.99 Å. In the second H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 1.00 Å. In the third H site, H is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O atom. The H-O bond length is 1.00 Å. Se is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted SeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent BO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two LiO₄ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Se-O bond distances ranging from 1.67-1.91 Å. There are nine inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to one Li, one B, and one H atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one B, and one H atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to two Li and one Se atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two B atoms. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a distorted bent 120 degrees geometry to two B atoms. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to one H and one Se atom. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one B and one Se atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to one B and one Se atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a bent 120 degrees geometry to two B atoms.