LiMg₆SiO₈ is alpha Po-derived structured and crystallizes in the tetragonal P4/mmm space group. Li is bonded to six O atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.11 Å) and two longer (2.20 Å) Li-O bond lengths. There are three inequivalent Mg sites. In the first Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.08 Å) and four longer (2.11 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the second Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with twelve MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are four shorter (2.11 Å) and two longer (2.24 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg site, Mg is bonded to six O atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.17 Å. Si is bonded to six O atoms to form SiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent SiO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with eight equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are two shorter (2.03 Å) and four longer (2.11 Å) Si-O bond lengths. There are six inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded to one Li and five Mg atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₅Si octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-5°. In the second O site, O is bonded to five Mg and one Si atom to form OMg₅Si octahedra that share corners with six equivalent OMg₅Si octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the third O site, O is bonded to two equivalent Li, two equivalent Mg, and two equivalent Si atoms to form OLi₂Mg₂Si₂ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₂Si₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the fourth O site, O is bonded to six Mg atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₂Si₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. In the fifth O site, O is bonded to two equivalent Li, two equivalent Mg, and two equivalent Si atoms to form OLi₂Mg₂Si₂ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₂Si₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.10 Å. In the sixth O site, O is bonded to six Mg atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₂Si₂ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. Both O-Mg bond lengths are 2.17 Å.