LiSbPHO₅ crystallizes in the triclinic P̅1 space group. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted LiO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent SbO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent PO₄ tetrahedra, edges with two equivalent SbO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one PO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 52-62°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.50 Å. There are two inequivalent Sb³⁺ sites. In the first Sb³⁺ site, Sb³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form SbO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SbO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and corners with four equivalent PO₄ tetrahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 62°. There are a spread of Sb-O bond distances ranging from 2.29-2.34 Å. In the second Sb³⁺ site, Sb³⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form SbO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent SbO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent PO₄ tetrahedra, and edges with four equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 62°. There are a spread of Sb-O bond distances ranging from 2.26-2.38 Å. P⁵⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four SbO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 35-60°. There are a spread of P-O bond distances ranging from 1.55-1.57 Å. H¹⁺ is bonded in a single-bond geometry to one O²⁻ atom. The H-O bond length is 1.00 Å. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, two Sb³⁺, and one H¹⁺ atom. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 1-coordinate geometry to one Sb³⁺ and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Sb³⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted T-shaped geometry to one Li¹⁺, one Sb³⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a distorted rectangular see-saw-like geometry to two equivalent Li¹⁺, one Sb³⁺, and one P⁵⁺ atom.