Li₃AlSiO₅ is beta beryllia-derived structured and crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pna2₁ space group. There are three inequivalent Li¹⁺ sites. In the first Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent AlO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with five LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.08 Å. In the second Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share  a cornercorner with one AlO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with seven LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.08 Å. In the third Li¹⁺ site, Li¹⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three equivalent AlO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with six LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.10 Å. Al³⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form AlO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent AlO₄ tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent SiO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with eight LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Al-O bond distances ranging from 1.77-1.80 Å. Si⁴⁺ is bonded to four O²⁻ atoms to form SiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent AlO₄ tetrahedra and corners with ten LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Si-O bond distances ranging from 1.62-1.70 Å. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form corner-sharing OLi₂AlSi tetrahedra. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two Li¹⁺ and two equivalent Al³⁺ atoms to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₂Al₂ tetrahedra. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form corner-sharing OLi₃Si tetrahedra. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to three Li¹⁺ and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form distorted corner-sharing OLi₃Si tetrahedra. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺, one Al³⁺, and one Si⁴⁺ atom to form corner-sharing OLi₂AlSi tetrahedra.