KLiMg₁₄O₁₅ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmm2 space group. K¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted KO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent KO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-20°. There are a spread of K-O bond distances ranging from 2.19-2.50 Å. Li¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ trigonal bipyramid, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 9°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.93-2.18 Å. There are ten inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with two equivalent KO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 25°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.18 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent KO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedra are not tilted. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.17 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent KO₆ octahedra, edges with five MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-17°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.10-2.24 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.22 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent KO₆ octahedra, edges with six MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.98-2.22 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.02-2.13 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent KO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-10°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.50 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ trigonal bipyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-6°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.29 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ square pyramid, corners with three equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ trigonal bipyramid,  an edgeedge with one KO₆ octahedra, and edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 7-19°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.94-2.18 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one KO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra,  an edgeedge with one LiO₅ square pyramid, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ trigonal bipyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 7-10°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.63 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one K¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OKMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OKMg₅ octahedra and edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one K¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OKMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OKMg₅ octahedra and edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-10°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OKMg₅ octahedra and edges with ten OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-3°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eight OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-15°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with ten OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-10°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent K¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OK₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with eight OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-20°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with six OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-15°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-15°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to one K¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with eleven OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-16°.