LiZn₄(SnO₂)₄ crystallizes in the triclinic P1 space group. Li is bonded in a distorted single-bond geometry to three Sn and one O atom. There are two shorter (2.71 Å) and one longer (2.79 Å) Li-Sn bond length. The Li-O bond length is 1.94 Å. There are four inequivalent Zn sites. In the first Zn site, Zn is bonded to four O atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with five ZnO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two equivalent SnLiO₃ trigonal pyramids. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.08 Å. In the second Zn site, Zn is bonded to four O atoms to form ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with five ZnO₄ tetrahedra and corners with two equivalent SnLiO₃ trigonal pyramids. There are two shorter (1.98 Å) and two longer (2.04 Å) Zn-O bond lengths. In the third Zn site, Zn is bonded to four O atoms to form distorted ZnO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with five ZnO₄ tetrahedra and  a cornercorner with one SnLiO₃ trigonal pyramid. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.06 Å. In the fourth Zn site, Zn is bonded to four O atoms to form corner-sharing ZnO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Zn-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.09 Å. There are four inequivalent Sn sites. In the first Sn site, Sn is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to three O atoms. There is one shorter (2.18 Å) and two longer (2.19 Å) Sn-O bond lengths. In the second Sn site, Sn is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Li and three O atoms. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.30 Å. In the third Sn site, Sn is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to four O atoms. There are a spread of Sn-O bond distances ranging from 2.17-2.45 Å. In the fourth Sn site, Sn is bonded to one Li and three O atoms to form distorted SnLiO₃ trigonal pyramids that share corners with five ZnO₄ tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one OLiZnSn₂ trigonal pyramid, and corners with two equivalent SnLiO₃ trigonal pyramids. There are two shorter (2.12 Å) and one longer (2.17 Å) Sn-O bond length. There are eight inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Zn and two equivalent Sn atoms. In the second O site, O is bonded to two equivalent Zn and two Sn atoms to form distorted OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with four OZn₃Sn tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids, and  an edgeedge with one OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra. In the third O site, O is bonded to two equivalent Zn and two Sn atoms to form a mixture of edge and corner-sharing OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra. In the fourth O site, O is bonded to one Li, one Zn, and two equivalent Sn atoms to form OLiZnSn₂ trigonal pyramids that share corners with four OZn₃Sn tetrahedra,  a cornercorner with one SnLiO₃ trigonal pyramid, and corners with two equivalent OLiZnSn₂ trigonal pyramids. In the fifth O site, O is bonded to three Zn and one Sn atom to form OZn₃Sn tetrahedra that share corners with four OZn₃Sn tetrahedra and corners with four OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a 3-coordinate geometry to two Zn and one Sn atom. In the seventh O site, O is bonded to three Zn and one Sn atom to form OZn₃Sn tetrahedra that share corners with five OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra and corners with two equivalent OLiZnSn₂ trigonal pyramids. In the eighth O site, O is bonded to two Zn and two equivalent Sn atoms to form distorted OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra that share corners with five OZn₃Sn tetrahedra, corners with two equivalent OZn₂Sn₂ trigonal pyramids, and edges with two equivalent OZn₂Sn₂ tetrahedra.