NaLiMg₆O₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. Na¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form NaO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent NaO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-10°. There are a spread of Na-O bond distances ranging from 2.15-2.28 Å. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent NaO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.03-2.14 Å. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with five MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (2.02 Å) and four longer (2.15 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with five MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent NaO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (2.02 Å) and four longer (2.16 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are two shorter (2.02 Å) and two longer (2.14 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent NaO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.14-2.43 Å. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Na¹⁺, one Li¹⁺, and four equivalent Mg²⁺ atoms to form ONaLiMg₄ octahedra that share corners with six ONaLiMg₄ octahedra and edges with eight OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Na¹⁺, one Li¹⁺, and four equivalent Mg²⁺ atoms to form ONaLiMg₄ octahedra that share corners with six ONaLiMg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-1°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve ONaLiMg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 4°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with ten ONaLiMg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-14°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Na¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form ONa₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with ten ONaLiMg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-17°.