Li₈Be₆P₇O₂₉ crystallizes in the monoclinic Cc space group. There are eight inequivalent Li sites. In the first Li site, Li is bonded to five O atoms to form distorted LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids that share corners with three BeO₄ tetrahedra, corners with three PO₄ tetrahedra, and corners with two equivalent LiO₅ trigonal bipyramids. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.54 Å. In the second Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three BeO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra. There is one shorter (2.03 Å) and three longer (2.07 Å) Li-O bond lengths. In the third Li site, Li is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.54 Å. In the fourth Li site, Li is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.54 Å. In the fifth Li site, Li is bonded in a 5-coordinate geometry to five O atoms. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.00-2.50 Å. In the sixth Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three BeO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-1.99 Å. In the seventh Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three BeO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-1.98 Å. In the eighth Li site, Li is bonded to four O atoms to form LiO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with three BeO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.89-1.99 Å. There are six inequivalent Be sites. In the first Be site, Be is bonded to four O atoms to form BeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra, and  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There is one shorter (1.63 Å) and three longer (1.65 Å) Be-O bond lengths. In the second Be site, Be is bonded to four O atoms to form BeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra, and  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are a spread of Be-O bond distances ranging from 1.63-1.65 Å. In the third Be site, Be is bonded to four O atoms to form BeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra, and  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There is one shorter (1.63 Å) and three longer (1.65 Å) Be-O bond lengths. In the fourth Be site, Be is bonded to four O atoms to form BeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra. There are three shorter (1.63 Å) and one longer (1.64 Å) Be-O bond length. In the fifth Be site, Be is bonded to four O atoms to form BeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra. There are three shorter (1.63 Å) and one longer (1.64 Å) Be-O bond length. In the sixth Be site, Be is bonded to four O atoms to form BeO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four PO₄ tetrahedra. There are three shorter (1.63 Å) and one longer (1.64 Å) Be-O bond length. There are seven inequivalent P sites. In the first P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four BeO₄ tetrahedra. All P-O bond lengths are 1.55 Å. In the second P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four BeO₄ tetrahedra. All P-O bond lengths are 1.55 Å. In the third P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra and corners with four BeO₄ tetrahedra. All P-O bond lengths are 1.55 Å. In the fourth P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four BeO₄ tetrahedra, and  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There is one shorter (1.54 Å) and three longer (1.55 Å) P-O bond lengths. In the fifth P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four BeO₄ tetrahedra, and  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. All P-O bond lengths are 1.55 Å. In the sixth P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with two LiO₄ tetrahedra, corners with four BeO₄ tetrahedra, and  a cornercorner with one LiO₅ trigonal bipyramid. There are three shorter (1.55 Å) and one longer (1.56 Å) P-O bond length. In the seventh P site, P is bonded to four O atoms to form PO₄ tetrahedra that share corners with four LiO₄ tetrahedra. There are two shorter (1.54 Å) and two longer (1.55 Å) P-O bond lengths. There are twenty-nine inequivalent O sites. In the first O site, O is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the second O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Li and one P atom. In the third O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Li and one P atom. In the fourth O site, O is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to three Li and one P atom. In the fifth O site, O is bonded in a linear geometry to one Li and one P atom. In the sixth O site, O is bonded in a linear geometry to two equivalent Li atoms. In the seventh O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the eighth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the ninth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the tenth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the eleventh O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the twelfth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the thirteenth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the fourteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the fifteenth O site, O is bonded in a distorted trigonal non-coplanar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the sixteenth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the seventeenth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the eighteenth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the nineteenth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the twentieth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the twenty-first O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the twenty-second O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the twenty-third O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the twenty-fourth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the twenty-fifth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the twenty-sixth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the twenty-seventh O site, O is bonded in a trigonal planar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the twenty-eighth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom. In the twenty-ninth O site, O is bonded in a trigonal non-coplanar geometry to one Li, one Be, and one P atom.