CsLiMg₁₄O₁₅ crystallizes in the orthorhombic Pmm2 space group. Cs¹⁺ is bonded in a 4-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Mg²⁺ and four O²⁻ atoms. Both Cs-Mg bond lengths are 2.61 Å. There are two shorter (2.39 Å) and two longer (2.56 Å) Cs-O bond lengths. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 1.99-2.43 Å. There are ten inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.97-2.34 Å. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 14°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.91-2.21 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with five MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 1-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.34 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-10°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.09-2.22 Å. In the fifth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with six MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.06-2.28 Å. In the sixth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a 6-coordinate geometry to two equivalent Cs¹⁺ and four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.36 Å. In the seventh Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with ten MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.12-2.21 Å. In the eighth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four MgO₆ octahedra, edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 5°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.96-2.25 Å. In the ninth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgO₅ square pyramids that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with seven MgO₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-16°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.90-2.23 Å. In the tenth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids,  an edgeedge with one LiO₆ octahedra, edges with nine MgO₆ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one MgO₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 6-12°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.05-2.37 Å. There are eleven inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-11°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four OLiMg₅ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with twelve OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OMg₅ square pyramids that share corners with six OCs₂Mg₄ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 9-88°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-20°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra, edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 3-9°. In the sixth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Li¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OCs₂Mg₄ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-8°. In the seventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent Cs¹⁺ and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OCs₂Mg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OLi₂Mg₄ octahedra, corners with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight OCsLiMg₄ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-47°. In the eighth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OMg₆ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the ninth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OCs₂Mg₄ octahedra, edges with eight OMg₆ octahedra, and edges with two equivalent OMg₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-13°. In the tenth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Cs¹⁺, one Li¹⁺, and four Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OCsLiMg₄ octahedra that share corners with six OCsLiMg₄ octahedra,  a cornercorner with one OMg₅ square pyramid, and edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-39°. In the eleventh O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OCsLiMg₄ octahedra, edges with ten OLiMg₅ octahedra, and  an edgeedge with one OMg₅ square pyramid. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 2-19°.