KLiMg₆O₇ crystallizes in the tetragonal P4mm space group. K¹⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form KO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one MgO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent KO₅ square pyramids, edges with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra. There are four shorter (2.26 Å) and one longer (2.42 Å) K-O bond length. Li¹⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form LiO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent KO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-3°. There are a spread of Li-O bond distances ranging from 2.14-2.26 Å. There are four inequivalent Mg²⁺ sites. In the first Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to five O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₅ square pyramids that share  a cornercorner with one KO₅ square pyramid, corners with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids, and edges with eight MgO₆ octahedra. There is one shorter (1.90 Å) and four longer (2.28 Å) Mg-O bond lengths. In the second Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, and edges with four equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-9°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.04-2.26 Å. In the third Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded in a square co-planar geometry to four O²⁻ atoms. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 1.95-2.26 Å. In the fourth Mg²⁺ site, Mg²⁺ is bonded to six O²⁻ atoms to form distorted MgO₆ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent LiO₆ octahedra, edges with six MgO₆ octahedra, edges with two equivalent KO₅ square pyramids, and edges with two equivalent MgO₅ square pyramids. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 14-15°. There are a spread of Mg-O bond distances ranging from 2.04-2.49 Å. There are five inequivalent O²⁻ sites. In the first O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one K¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form distorted OKMg₅ octahedra that share corners with four equivalent OKMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OLiMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles are 15°. In the second O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with eight OK₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-7°. In the third O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to one Li¹⁺ and five Mg²⁺ atoms to form OLiMg₅ octahedra that share corners with six OLiMg₅ octahedra and edges with twelve OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-14°. In the fourth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to two equivalent K¹⁺, two equivalent Li¹⁺, and two Mg²⁺ atoms to form OK₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra that share corners with six OK₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra and edges with ten OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-4°. In the fifth O²⁻ site, O²⁻ is bonded to six Mg²⁺ atoms to form OMg₆ octahedra that share corners with six OK₂Li₂Mg₂ octahedra and edges with ten OKMg₅ octahedra. The corner-sharing octahedral tilt angles range from 0-16°.